hastily The village had been hastily abandoned. 
be found/left abandoned The car was found abandoned in a nearby town. 
altogether, completely, entirely, totally The government does not propose to abandon the project altogether.
effectively, largely, virtually This principle has now been effectively abandoned.
simply Traditional policies were simply abandoned.
quietly The plans for reform were quietly abandoned.
for He abandoned the army for politics.
in favor of She abandoned teaching career in favor of sport. 
stand for The abbreviation PC stands for ‘personal computer’. 
for A/C is the standard abbreviation for ‘account’.
~ of Ad lib is an abbreviation of the Latin phrase ‘ad libitum’. 
demonstrate, show Both players demonstrated their ability to hit the ball hard.
lose I seem to have lost my ability to attract clients.
appreciate, recognize Fox's abilities were soon recognized. 
to the best of your ability We will keep you informed to the best of our ability. 
high The school does nothing for children of high ability.
average, mixed It is much more difficult to teach a mixed-ability class. 
a level of ability There was a high level of ability among the school leavers.
a range of ability/abilities I taught a wide range of abilities. 
perfectly, quite, well He is well able to take care of himself.
better, more Once you've had some sleep you'll feel better able to cope.
just I was just able to make out a dark figure in the distance.
be, seem She seems very able. 
altogether, completely, totally Some MPs want to abolish the tax altogether.
largely Foreign exchange controls were largely abolished. 
develop, get I developed an abscess on my neck.
burst Once an abscess has burst it should be bathed with antiseptic liquid. 
conspicuously, markedly, notably, noticeably, strikingly Local people were conspicuously absent from the meeting.
strangely He played with an abandon that was strangely absent from his performance last week. 
from He was absent from work for two weeks. 
keep sb A jigsaw puzzle can keep me absorbed for hours. 
completely, fully, totally, utterly He was totally absorbed in his book. 
find sth She found the whole concept faintly absurd. 
a sense of the absurd His sense of the absurd kept him from becoming too solemn. 
be open to The legal system is open to abuse. 
carry out, subject sb to She was subjected to regular sexual abuse.
suffer, take The child had taken a lot of emotional abuse.
stream, torrent He was subjected to a torrent of abuse. 
endure They had to endure continual racial abuse. 
heap abuse on sb/sth Abuse and scorn were heaped on the proposals.
a target for/of abuse The team who lost became a target of abuse for angry fans.
a term of abuse Calling someone stupid is definitely a term of abuse. 
openly He became openly abusive. 
at an/the ~ He later studied at the Royal Academy. 
in There has been a rapid acceleration in the growth of industry. 
fast, good This model has the best acceleration of any available sports car.
broad, marked, pronounced, strong, thick She had a pronounced Scottish accent.
American, middle-class, northern, etc. 
hint, trace Her French was excellent, without a trace of an accent. 
affect, assume, imitate, put on She put on a posh accent when she answered the phone.
lose He lost his northern accent after moving south. 
in an ~ She spoke in a broad Midlands accent.
with/without A tall man with an American accent 
consider sth, deem sth, find sth We must come up with a solution that our shareholders will find acceptable. 
eminently, highly, very Her breeding and background made her eminently acceptable in royal circles.
completely, entirely, fully, perfectly, quite, totally Yogurt is a perfectly acceptable substitute for cream in cooking.
equally Are all political and religious groups equally acceptable?
direct, easy, free, good, ready, unlimited, unrestricted I lived deep in the country, without easy access to shops.
limited, poor, restricted Access to this information is severely restricted.
equal Men and women should have equal access to education and employment.
give (sb), offer (sb), provide (sb with) The new computer provides access to all the files.
deny sb, prevent, refuse (sb), restrict Some people are being denied access to proper medical care. 
~ to He was finally granted access to the medical records. 
essential, perfect, useful This silk scarf is the perfect accessory for stylish summer evenings.
an accessory before/after the fact (= a person who knows about a crime before/after it was committed and protects the criminal) (law) If you were lying to the police, then you have been an accessory after the fact for all these years. 
be critically acclaimed, be highly/internationally/widely acclaimed This book has been widely acclaimed as a modern classic. 
comfortably, easily It was a large hall, where a lot of people could be comfortably accommodated. 
can/could The car park can accommodate about 200 cars. 
for/to These wines also make a good accompaniment for vegetarian dishes. 
to the ~ of She sang to the accompaniment of guitars.
with an ~ I prefer to sing with an accompaniment. 
to the ~ of The women's medical school opened in 1874, to the accompaniment of much ridicule of ‘lady doctors’.
safely, successfully A rather difficult task had been successfully accomplished.
technical Her technical accomplishment on the piano is startling. 
~ in It is a great accomplishment in singing to take the melodic line up to a position of energy and hold it there. 
with His version of events does not accord fully with the facts. 
fully The increase can be fully accounted for.
partly The differences in achievement between the pupils are partly accounted for by differences in age. 
hold sb The directors are held accountable by the shareholders. 
directly Senior managers are directly accountable to the Board of Directors.
publicly Local authorities should be publicly accountable to the communities they serve.
for In the end, we are all accountable for our actions.
to Politicians are accountable to Parliament. 
chief We talked to the company's chief accountant.
investigating, reporting the investigating accountant's report > Note at PROFESSIONAL(for verbs) 
be, prove His predictions proved accurate. 
not completely, not entirely, not quite, not strictly, not wholly The figures he gave were not strictly accurate.
full and accurate He gave a full and accurate account of his movements. 
practically, virtually She practically accused me of starting the fire!
openly, publicly They openly accused her of dishonesty. 
cannot/could not You can't accuse me of being selfish. 
of No one could ever accuse this government of not caring about the poor. 
stand accused of He stands accused of murdering his wife and children. 
serve Rafter has served fifteen aces in the match so far. 
badly, really My feet ached badly.
a bit My left foot ached a bit. 
from I still really ache from all that cycling yesterday. 
ache all over Her head felt hot and she was aching all over. 
considerable, extraordinary, fine, great, important, impressive, major, no mean, notable, outstanding, real, remarkable, significant, tremendous This was no mean achievement for the government.
be, constitute, represent This conference in itself constitutes a solid achievement. 
in She was given a prize for her achievements in textile design. 
quite an achievement To be offered a place at such a good university is quite an achievement. 
human He believes European civilization was the high point of human achievement.
academic, educational, intellectual Success should not be measured solely by educational achievement. 
a feeling/sense of achievement Climbing the mountain gave him a tremendous sense of achievement.
effectively, implicitly, tacitly The peace settlement effectively acknowledged the country's independence.
openly, publicly He acknowledged publicly that he might have made a mistake.
be forced to Mental illness can exist for years before families are forced to acknowledge the truth. 
duly The company duly acknowledged receipt of the letter.
hereby I hereby acknowledge receipt of your letter of 25 July. 
have, suffer from He had terrible acne when he was younger.
develop, get A lot of teenagers develop acne.
treat Doctors can treat acne with pills or creams. 
clear (up) Acne often clears up with a change in diet. 
with Are you fully acquainted with the facts? 
become, get I would like to get acquainted with her.
get sb Playing a game with the children is a good way of getting them acquainted. 
with I am not personally acquainted with her. 
return The jury returned an acquittal after only seventeen minutes.
direct, order The trial judge had directed an acquittal.
lead to, result in The trial resulted in an acquittal.
uphold The judge upheld their acquittal. 
balancing, disappearing, juggling, vanishing The UN must perform a difficult balancing act between the two sides in the conflict. 
~ of For Jane, the act of writing was always difficult. 
an act of faith, love, violence, will, worship, etc., catch sb in the act (of doing sth) He was caught in the act of stealing.
the simple/very act of doing sth The very act of writing out your plan clarifies what you need to do. 
bring in, introduce, pass The Act was passed by a majority of 175 votes to 143.
repeal The old Act has now been repealed.
breach, contravene The company had breached the 1994 Companies Act. 
become law, come into force The new Children's Act will come into force next year.
contain sth, say sth, state sth The Act contains regulations for banks and building societies. 
under an/the ~ He was charged under the Firearms Act of 1977. 
class (informal) (used for sb who does sth well) Their new striker looks a class act.
double comedy double act French and Saunders
do, perform He does a little song-and-dance act.
in (the) ~ The king is killed in the opening act. 
put on Don't take any notice?she's just putting on an act! 
bad, poor, wooden The film is spoiled by some very wooden acting. 
do I did quite a lot of acting when I was at college. 
keep (informal), remain Try to keep active in the cold weather. 
mentally, physically It's important to remain mentally active after retirement.
sexually A minority of children are sexually active before they are in their teens.
economically, politically When did you first become politically active? 
in She has been active in local politics for some years. 
accomplished, born, brilliant, consummate, experienced, fine, good, great, talented, wonderful You're a born actor!
frustrated Lecturers are often frustrated actors who enjoy performing before a live audience.
character, classical, comedy/comic, Shakespearean, straight
film, Hollywood, screen, stage, television
act (sth), perform (sth), play (sth) The same actor plays three different parts in the film.
audition He was one of many actors who auditioned for the part of Hamlet. > Note at JOB 
course My doctor recommended a course of acupuncture. 
have I'm having acupuncture for a bad back.
give sb, practise, use Acupuncture has been practised in China for thousands of years. 
point Needles are inserted into specific acupuncture points in the body.
successfully, well The children have adapted well to the heat.
easily, readily The company can easily adapt to changing demand.
accordingly We need to assess the new situation and adapt accordingly. 
the ability to adapt Some animals have a remarkable ability to adapt to changing environments.
find it difficult/hard to adapt A lot of companies have found it hard to adapt to the new system. 
from The radio play had been adapted from a novel. 
specially adapted The classroom has been specially adapted to take wheelchairs. 
occur Adaptations in plants occur over thousands of years. 
for The Antarctic species have few special adaptations for polar life.
a process of adaptation The process of adaptation to a new school is difficult for some children. 
film, screen, television/TV He specializes in screen adaptations of classic novels. 
computer, television, etc. Many young boys become computer addicts. 
become, turn into A habit can easily become an addiction.
feed He stole money from his parents to feed his addiction.
to She had an addiction to heroin. 
make We have made several additions to the collection recently. 
simple He worked it out through simple addition. 
do She can do addition, but she hasn't learned subtraction yet. 
personally The minister did not reply to my letter although I addressed it to him personally. 
a stamped addressed envelope Please send a stamped addressed envelope and we will send you a copy of our brochure. 
by name, directly She did not address him by name. He never addressed her directly. 
to He addressed his comments to the chairman. 
adequately These concerns were not adequately addressed in the report.
address yourself to sth The authors of the book address themselves to the question of unemployment. 
consider sth, think sth The trains were not considered adequate for use on the modern railways. 
more than The system is more than adequate to deal with any problems.
barely, hardly, less than, not entirely, not wholly The grants given to students are less than adequate.
more or less The amount of money we have been given is more or less adequate.
for The old computer is still perfectly adequate for most tasks. 
attributive, predicative Attributive adjectives precede the noun.
possessive ‘My’ is a possessive adjective. 
apply ‘Enterprising’ is not an adjective you would apply to him! 
modify, qualify Adjectives qualify nouns.
follow Predicative adjectives follow the noun.
finely It is important to have equipment that can be finely adjusted.
accordingly Children are sensitive to disapproval and adjust their behaviour accordingly.
downwards, upwards This estimate may have to be adjusted downwards. 
for Salaries are adjusted for inflation. 
need/take time to It may take a little time to adjust to the climate here. 
to She will gradually adjust to her new role. 
make The mechanic made the necessary adjustments to the engine.
to The company's adjustment to the new markets has been successful. 
a period of adjustment There was a long period of adjustment under the new boss.
the process of adjustment The process of adjustment to life in another country can be very difficult. 
poor The college loses a lot of money through poor administration.
Conservative, Labour, etc.
form On September 27 a new coalition administration was formed. 
rear, vice > Note at RANK 
deeply, enormously, greatly, hugely, particularly, really He admires you enormously.
secretly She secretly admired and envied him. 
have to You have to admire their dedication and commitment. 
about What do you most admire about her?
for I rather admire him for his determination. 
be generally/widely admired He is widely admired as a journalist.
can't/couldn't help admiring/but admire I couldn't help but admire his determination.
you can only admire sb/sth You can only admire her courage and determination. 
stand/step back to He stood back to admire his handiwork. 
apply for, seek He's applied for admission to the local college.
on ~ On admission to hospital, you will be examined by a doctor.
clear, frank, full This is a clear admission that you were wrong.
of She has made no admission of any involvement in the plot. 
an admission of defeat/failure/guilt/liability She saw his leaving the company as an admission of failure.
by sb's own admission By his own admission he should never have driven so fast. 
gain They were unable to gain admittance to the hall.
to The ticket will allow you admittance to the theatre. 
offer sb for, place sb for, put sb up for She has decided to put the child up for adoption.
be available for When will the child be available for adoption? 
go through They were so happy when the adoption went through successfully. 
formal The party announced the formal adoption of George Smith as their 
recommend, urge The committee recommended the adoption of new safety procedure 
burst, flow, rush, surge He felt a surge of pure adrenalin as he won the race. 
course, flow, pump, surge The adrenalin was coursing through his system. 
get the adrenalin flowing/going We'll start with a bit of dancing to get the adrenalin going. 
young This book will definitely appeal to teenagers and young adults.
single The number of single adult households has doubled in the past 30 years.
consenting What consenting adults do in private is their own business.
responsible I simply can't believe that responsible adults allowed a child to wander the streets. 
life She spent her entire adult life caring for others.
during/in ~ His problems began in early adulthood.
into ~ Her childhood problems persisted into adulthood.
into The troops advanced into central Europe.
on/upon The army advanced on the capital.
towards He advanced towards me in aggressive style. 
beyond Society needs to advance beyond prejudice and superstition. 
~ to her advancement to the position of Supervisor 
an opportunity for advancement There are good opportunities for advancement within the company. 
be, prove Membership of the union could prove advantageous.
make sth Lower fares make it advantageous to travel in winter.
find sth You may find it advantageous to wait a few weeks before replying. 
mutually This trade arrangement could be mutually advantageous
for This scheme could be advantageous for people on low incomes.
to The new tax system is advantageous to higher-rate taxpayers. 
modify sth, qualify sth Adverbs qualify verbs. 
be faced with, meet with When faced with adversity she was never tempted to give up.
heavily These products have been advertised very heavily.
widely There are plans to advertise the job more widely.
for We are advertising for a babysitter. 
constructive, excellent, good, helpful, practical, sensible, sound, useful, valuable That's very sound advice.
bad, wrong I think my solicitor gave me the wrong advice.
bit, piece, word Can I give you a friendly word of advice? 
give (sb), offer (sb), pass on, provide (sb with) I hope I can pass on some useful advice.
get, obtain, receive, take I think you need to take legal advice.
ask (for), go to sb for, seek, turn to sb for Go to your doctor and ask for advice. She asked her mother's advice.
accept, act on, follow, heed, listen to, take I wished that I had followed her advice.
centre The Local Authority runs an advice centre in the town. 
against sb's ~ Permission was given against the advice of the planning officers.
on sb's ~ On the advice of his experts he bought another company.
~ for Here is some advice for pregnant women.
~ on Can you give me some advice on where to buy good maps?
~ to My advice to you would be to wait a few months. 
strenuously, strongly I strongly advise you not to do this.
badly, wrongly We were badly advised by our solicitor.
about We can advise parents about education.
against They advised me against sending cash by post.
on We will be happy to advise on any financial matters. 
be ill/well advised to do sth John would be ill advised to rely on their support. You would be better advised to consult an accountant. 
be pleased to I am pleased to advise you that your application has been accepted.
keep sb advised Please keep me advised of new developments in this case. 
ardent, enthusiastic, firm, great, outspoken, powerful, staunch, strong She's a staunch advocate of free trade.
for He is one of the leading advocates for a more modern style of worship.
defence > Note at PROFESSIONAL(for verbs) 
radio, television/TV 
pick sth up, receive sth The aerial receives signals from the ground. 
whole She saw the whole affair as a great joke.
glittering, grand I knew that the wedding would be a grand affair.
deal with, handle Many people have criticized the way the government handled the affair.
sb's involvement in the affair He has tried to play down his involvement in the affair.
a state of affairs How did this state of affairs come about?
carry on, conduct, have He's having an affair with a colleague. 
go on How long has the affair been going on? 
between It's the story of a secret affair between a married teacher and her teenage student.
family, personal, sb's own It's a family affair. 
sb's affair What I do at the weekend is my affair.
no affair of sb's That's no affair of yours. 
European, foreign, external, international, world the minister for foreign affairs
administer, arrange, attend to, conduct, manage, run I am trying to arrange my father's financial affairs.
affairs of state The Cabinet will be discussing certain affairs of state.
put/set your affairs in order I want to put my affairs in order before I die.
feel, have, hold sb in, retain He was held in great affection by hundreds of students.
crave, need, want He just wants a bit of affection.
gain, win She had tried hard to win his affection.
with ~ He'll be remembered with genuine affection.
~ for I have a deep affection for his mother.
~ to/towards The teacher showed affection towards all her pupils. 
a display of affection I don't go in for public displays of affection.
love and affection I yearn for the love and affection I once had.
the object of sb's affections The object of his affections was a young opera singer.
be afflicted with He's badly afflicted with a skin disorder. 
regard/see/take sth as He took his son's desertion as a personal affront. 
to This remark caused affront to many people. 
make sb What has made you so deeply afraid of your boss? 
almost She was tense, almost afraid to open the letter.
a bit, half, a little, rather, slightly He was half afraid to look at her.
just, simply You do know, don't you? You are just afraid to tell me.
suddenly He stopped abruptly, suddenly afraid to say the words out loud.
for Roger was very afraid for her.
of Charlie is afraid of marriage. 
nothing to be afraid of Don't worry. There's nothing to be afraid of. 
Friday, Saturday, etc.
April, May, etc.
spend We spent the afternoon sitting by the pool. 
progress, wear on As the afternoon wore on he began to look unhappy. 
tea Afternoon tea is served on the terrace.
light, sun The afternoon sun shone full on her. 
by ~, during the ~, in the ~, on Monday, etc. ~ 
an/the afternoon off You deserve an afternoon off. 
considerably, greatly, a lot, really The shock has aged her considerably. My mother has really aged since she became ill.
a little He had put on weight and aged a little.
well This wine has not aged well. 
clear A clear agenda will win votes in the next election.
five-point, etc. An 18-point agenda was drawn up for the meeting.
hidden, secret He accused the government of having a hidden agenda.
narrow The party has a rather narrow political agenda.
agree on, draw up, establish, set The college needs to draw up an agenda for change.
follow We were following an agenda set by the students themselves.
add sth to, put sth on I will put this on the agenda for the next meeting.
leave sth off, remove sth from, take sth off The question of pay had been left off the agenda.
circulate A copy of the agenda is circulated to delegates a month before the conference. 
on a/the ~ Safety at work is on the agenda for next month's meeting.
off the ~ (figurative) An expensive holiday is definitely off the agenda this year (= not sth we can consider).
~ for We have an agreed agenda for action. 
firmly/high on the agenda In our company, quality is high on the agenda.
an item/a point on the agenda, next on the agenda Next on the agenda is deciding where we're going to live.
top of the agenda Improving trade between the two countries will be top of the agenda at the talks. > Special page at MEETING 
greatly, seriously, severely Their negative reactions have greatly aggravated the situation.
make sb Watching violence on TV makes some children more aggressive. 
openly Her mood became openly aggressive when his name was mentioned. 
towards He warned that his dog was aggressive towards strangers. 
mental, physical I admired his considerable mental agility. 
show She shows great agility on the tennis court. 
with ~ He jumped over the wall with surprising agility. 
conceal, hide He could not hide his agitation. 
in sb's ~ He knocked his glass over in his agitation.
with ~ She was wriggling on the seat with agitation. 
engage in, turn to The organization is turning to political agitation in order to achieve its aims.
against There has been mass agitation against the president.
~ for There is growing agitation for reform of local government. 
heartily, strongly, very much I very much agree with the prime minister.
absolutely, completely, entirely, fully, wholeheartedly I agree entirely with what you have said.
broadly, generally It is generally agreed that more funding is needed for education.
gravely, lamely, meekly, soberly, tartly ‘That's true,’ she agreed gravely. 
be inclined to I'm inclined to agree there's nothing we can do. 
about We don't always agree about everything.
on/upon Are we all agreed on this?
with Do you agree with me that the scheme won't work? 
couldn't agree more I couldn't agree more with what has just been said.
I quite agree, I'm sure you will agree I'm sure you'll agree that this issue is vitally important to the success of the company. 
readily She suggested a walk in the open air and he readily agreed.
kindly Edith Harlow has kindly agreed to help.
to He agreed to our proposals. 
provisionally It was provisionally agreed that 12 August was to be the date. 
be unable to, fail to The two countries were unable to agree on a common strategy. 
agree to differ/disagree We must just agree to disagree on this point.
draft The draft agreement will be available two weeks before the meeting.
legal, (legally) binding The agreement will be legally binding.
negotiate, work towards We are working towards a formal ceasefire agreement.
conclude, enter into, reach, sign After hours of talks the government and the union have reached an agreement.
have We have an agreement to always tell each other the truth about everything.
be bound by We signed the agreement so we are now bound by it.
adhere to, honour, keep to, stick to You have not kept to our agreement.
break, go back on, renege on, violate Some employers reneged on agreements once the recession set in. 
under an/the ~ Under the agreement, the farmer is not allowed to use this field.
~ on They signed two agreements on improving economic co-operation.
~ with a trade agreement with China 
breach of agreement He sued the company for breach of agreement.
the terms of the agreement The terms of the agreement do not allow such exports. 
arrive at, come to, reach I am hopeful that we can come to an agreement. The two sides failed to reach agreement.
nod He nodded his agreement.
get We will need to get the agreement of the local council. 
by ~ The separation is by mutual agreement.
in ~ I think we are all in agreement that prices should be kept low.
in ~ with I am in agreement with you that she should be given more responsibilities.
with ~ With the agreement of all members of the club, we decided to organize a trip.
~ among There is agreement among teachers that changes need to be made.
~ between As yet there is no agreement between the two sides.
~ on As yet there is no agreement on policies. > 
pecial page at MEETING 
cash, development, economic, financial, food, legal, medical, military, relief Legal aid (= government money for legal advice) is a fundamental part of our system of justice.
bilateral, external, foreign, international, overseas The country relies on foreign aid 
appeal for, call for The country's president has appealed for international aid in the wake of the disaster.
cut (off), suspend, withdraw, withhold The British government has now suspended humanitarian aid to the area. 
ask for, enlist We enlisted the aid of John and his family.
come/go to sb's (= to help someone) She screamed loudly and two people came to her aid. 
with/without the ~ of She is now able to walk with the aid of a stick. 
to essential aids to learning > See FIRST AID 
full-blown Once you are infected you will?sooner or later?develop full-blown Aids. 
case Six cases of Aids have been reported. 
the spread of Aids a worldwide campaign to prevent the spread of Aids > Special page at ILLNESS 
sole His sole aim in life is to enjoy himself.
clear, explicit It is important to have a clear aim in view.
high, worthy Simple truth must be the highest aim of any real enquiry.
common I want to see a strong and united country in which people work together with common aims.
underlying Although the report covers many areas, its underlying aim is to ensure that another accident never happens.
eventual, ultimate His ultimate aim was to force the prime minister to resign.
avowed, declared, express/expressed, stated The express aim of the treaty is to keep the whole region free from nuclear weapons.
achieve, fulfil You will have to work hard to achieve your aim.
further, pursue They were intent on furthering their aims. The country is still pursuing its aim of joining the EU. 
with the ~ of She started the organization with the aim of helping local people. 
aims and objectives What are the aims and objectives of this visit? 
careful I'll take more careful aim next time.
poor His aim was poor and he missed the target. 
at He took aim at the target and fired. 
clean, clear, fresh, pure We need some fresh air in this stuffy room!
sweet The air was sweet with incense.
blast, gust We felt a blast of cold air as she opened the door.
breath He drew in another breath of air. 
breathe (in), gulp in, suck in Land crabs breathe air and cannot swim. She gulped in the fresh mountain air.
fight for, gasp for She was gasping for air as she ran out of the burning house.
smell, sniff The dog stretched and sniffed the air.
fill, hang in The tang of some wild herb hung in the air. 
blow, rise, waft The cool night air wafted in the open windows. 
in/into the ~ I kicked the ball high into the air.
through the ~ Spicy smells wafted through the air. 
in the open air (= outside) The market is held in the open air. 
traffic We are cleared by Air Traffic Control to taxi and take off.
attack, strike Three buildings were bombed last night in an air strike on the city. 
by ~ (= by plane) It only takes three hours by air.
from the ~ The hideout is 
in mid-air The two planes collided in mid air. 
have, retain You have an air of authority.
add, bring, give (sth) A stone balcony gives the building an air of elegance. 
with an/the ~ He leaned towards Melissa with an air of great confidentiality.
model His passion is making model aircraft. 
fly, pilot The aircraft was flown by a young American pilot.
crash The pilot overshot the runway and crashed his aircraft.
shoot down To be an ace you had to shoot down five enemy aircraft. 
take off The aircraft is due to take off at midnight.
taxi The aircraft taxied along the runway.
noise He claimed that aircraft noise was the worst form of air pollution in London.
depart from, fly from, take off from We will fly from Chicago's O'Hare airport.
arrive at, land at, touch down at The plane touched down at Glasgow airport just before midday.
be, stand The office door stood ajar.
leave sth She had left the kitchen door slightly ajar. 
public There is growing public alarm at this increase in crime.
cause, create, provoke The head teacher's policies have provoked alarm among parents.
express, register Many people have expressed alarm at the plans. His face registered no alarm at all when I told him the news. 
in ~ He shouted out in alarm.
to sb's ~ To her parents' alarm, she announced that she intended to travel the world.
with ~ The news has been greeted with alarm.
~ about/at/over There has been considerable alarm about the new proposals. 
alarm and despondency (often humorous) He loves spreading alarm and despondency.
cause for alarm I see no cause for alarm, as she often arrives late. 
false The fire service was called out, but it was a false alarm. 
give, raise, sound The guard raised the alarm when he discovered that six prisoners had escaped. 
call Many birds give alarm calls to warn of danger. 
personal, rape Lizzie was carrying a rape alarm but it was out of reach in her handbag.
set I set my alarm for 6.30.
activate, set off, trigger Unfortunately any little noise can set off the alarm.
be fitted with The fire brigade recommends that every house is fitted with a smoke alarm.
go off, ring, sound The alarm went off at 7 o'clock. Suddenly the 
call Book an alarm call if you need to make an early start. 
find sth I find the prospect of being without work extremely alarming. 
pure Is it possible for cars to run on pure alcohol? 
drop, unit You need to be careful how many units of alcohol you drink in a week.
level The driver had more than the permitted level of alcohol in his blood. 
avoid, keep off, not touch, stay off I haven't touched a drop of alcohol for three weeks.
abuse (formal) Most drinkers do not abuse alcohol at all. 
content, level It can take a long time for blood alcohol levels to fall.
problem People can find it hard to admit they have an alcohol problem. 
suffer from Three people in the family suffer from alcoholism.
combat, treat > Special page at ILLNESS 
keep sb The machine should help to keep the pilot alert. 
immediately, instantly, suddenly There was a noise outside and he was suddenly alert.
mentally He was as mentally alert as a man half his age. 
to Climbers need to be alert to possible dangers. 
adopt, use After her escape from prison, Claire Potter adopted the alias Margaret Smith. 
under an/the ~ (= using another name) Five years ago he had lived in France under an alias. 
find sth It was an act of violence that she found alien and shocking. 
to They spoke a language totally alien to him. 
a feeling/sense of alienation There is a growing feeling of alienation among young unemployed people. 
along He argued that important historical sites were aligned along straight lines of mystic energy.
with This pillar is roughly aligned with the others. PHRASAL VERBS align yourself with sb/sth 
closely, firmly The group does not want to align itself too closely with the government. 
exactly Though John and Andrew look exactly alike, they act quite differently. 
in The two towns are very much alike in size and population. 
true The defendants in the libel case maintain that their allegations are true.
fresh, further, new There have been fresh allegations of atrocities.
retract, withdraw I advise you to withdraw your allegation before I contact my lawyer.
answer, counter, refute The minister has the right to answer specific allegations. He will need to counter allegations that he accepted money from criminals.
prove, support The committee found no evidence to support allegations of smuggling.
disprove It took over two months to disprove the allegation.
give rise to, lead to, prompt, provoke The sudden collapse of the business led to allegations of corrupt dea
examine, investigate, look into, probe (used in journalism) The governor of the prison is investigating allegations that a prisoner was attacked and beaten by a prison warder. 
amid/amidst ~ He has resigned amid corruption allegations.
~ against He has made certain allegations against the company. 
cause Hair and feathers can cause allergies. 
to He developed an allergy to pollen. > Special page at ILLNESS 
stinking I don't want to be left for dead in some stinking alley.
lead onto sth, lead to sth The alley leads to the village square. 
along an/the ~ I walked back along a side alley.
in an/the ~ They had cornered him in an alley.
through an/the ~ She wandered through the back alleys.
to His decision to move to London is closely allied to his ambition to become manager of the company.
with The party is allied with the Communists. 
make The allocation must be made according to a strict set of criteria. 
give The school gave them a generous allocation of money with which to purchase books.
increase, up The charity is trying to get its allocation upped for next year.
indirect, veiled She was made uncomfortable by his veiled allusion to the previous night.
make He makes several allusions to these events in his latest book. 
find sb Some people find her aloof and unfriendly. 
hold (yourself), keep (yourself), remain, stand Some thought that Britain was standing aloof from Europe.
keep sb There were many things that had kept her aloof and apart from the crowd. 
from He has remained largely aloof from the hurly-burly of parliamentary politics. 
approach, go up to The bride approached the altar. 
at an/the ~ Helen and Tony knelt at the altar.
before an/the ~ He lay prostrate before the high altar.
on an/the ~ He placed the candles on the altar. 
need, require The leaflets require no alteration from year to year. 
in There will be no alteration in corporation tax.
~ to We will have to make a slight alteration to the plans. 
cruising The plane took off and climbed to cruising altitude. 
cruise at, fly at, maintain The aircraft maintained an altitude of 28,000 feet.
reach, rise to The aviators reported the columns of smoke rising to an altitude of 2,000 feet.
lose The plane suddenly started to lose altitude. 
at an/the ~ No trees will grow at that altitude. 
really His skill as a dancer really amazed me. 
never cease to It never ceases to amaze me what some people will do for money. 
mock She raised her eyebrows in mock amazement. 
in ~ He stared at the animal in amazement.
to sb's ~ To her amazement she got the job.
with ~ Laura looked around her with amazement.
~ at He expressed amazement at being left out of the match. 
British, French, etc. 
appoint, appoint sb (as), make sb She's been appointed British ambassador to the UN.
send The King sent an ambassador to Paris.
recall, withdraw The US ambassador was recalled to Washington in protest.
in the Israeli ambassador in London
~ to He served as ambassador to Syria. 
make sth, render sth The paragraph is rendered ambiguous by the writer's careless use of pronouns. 
deliberately, intentionally I suspected that he was being deliberately ambiguous. 
extremely, highly, very He is a highly ambitious politician.
for She is very ambitious for her four children. 
overly Phases 2 and 3 seem overly ambitious. 
deeply, highly, very The party's position on nuclear weapons is deeply ambivalent.
about He feels rather ambivalent about his role as teacher. 
lay, prepare, set up The soldiers set up an ambush on the road.
lie in, wait in The soldiers lay in ambush for the enemy troops.
carry out, stage They staged an ambush on an army patrol.
be caught in, run into, walk into We ran into an ambush in the valley. 
in an/the ~ Twelve men were killed in the ambush.
important, major, significant A major amendment was introduced into the legislation.
draft The committee does not adequately consult others when drafting amendments.
move, propose, put forward, suggest, table He moved an amendment limiting capital punishment to certain very serious crimes.
withdraw She withdrew her amendment and left the meeting.
accept, adopt, approve, carry, pass, ratify, support, vote for Parliament accepted the amendment and the bill was passed. On a free vote, the amendment was carried by 292 votes to 246.
be subject to The programme is subject to amendment. 
without ~ The new clause was accepted without amendment.
~ to an amendment to the Clean Water Act 
enough, quite I've only met Jane once but she seems amiable enough. 
give sb, grant, offer The government granted an amnesty to all political prisoners.
under an/the ~ He was released from prison under an amnesty.
~ for They announced a general amnesty for crimes committed during the war. 
greatly Her discomfort amused him greatly. 
seem to The thought of me on the stage seemed to amuse him.
with He amused us with his stories. 
hint, note, trace There was a note of amusement in her voice. 
afford sb, cause, provide I am happy to have afforded you amusement.
derive, find, get He seemed to be deriving amusement from her discomfort.
show A glimmer of amusement showed in her eyes. 
for (sb's) ~ What do you do for amusement round here? The play was written for the amusement of the other students.
in ~ Her wide mouth twitched in amusement.
to sb's ~ Much to their amusement, I couldn't get the door open.
with ~ She chuckled with amusement. 
a source of amusement His son was a constant source of amusement to him. 
popular She disapproved of popular amusements such as fairs. 
administer, give sb He was given a general anaesthetic.
use The operation was completed in ten minutes using only local anaesthetic.
have She had a local anaesthetic to stop the pain.
take effect, work The anaesthetic began to take effect.
under (an/the) ~ It would have to be done under anaesthetic.
without (an/the) ~ They had to operate without anaesthetic. 
close, obvious A close analogy with the art of singing can be made. 
draw, make, suggest, use She drew an analogy between running the economy and a housewife's weekly budget. 
fit, hold The Wild West analogy does not fit here. 
by ~ (to/with) We can understand this theory by analogy with human beings.
~ between She suggested an analogy between the human heart and a pump.
~ for The computer is a useful analogy for the brain.
~ with There is an analogy here with the way an engine works. 
argument by/from analogy Argument from analogy is not always valid. 
carry out, do, make, perform They carried out an in-depth analysis of the results.
give He gave a brief analysis of the present economic situation. 
indicate sth, show sth Analysis of the wine showed that it contained dangerous additives. 
in an/the ~ In his analysis of the novel he discusses various aspects of the author's own life. 
in the final/last analysis In the final analysis, the king's power was greater than the bishop's. 
part of your anatomy (often humorous) He was hit in a rather sensitive part of his anatomy. 
common The two species have developed from a common ancestry.
Celtic, French, etc. 
claim, have, share She shares a common ancestry with the Queen.
trace We can trace our ancestry back to the 16th century. 
date/go/reach/stretch back to The firm claims an ancestry dating back to 1727. 
be of French, German, etc. ancestry He is of Chinese ancestry. 
firmly, securely The crane is securely anchored at two points. 
to The ropes were anchored to the rocks. 
relate, tell She is good at telling anecdotes.
about We swapped anecdotes about old friends. 
righteous Catherine appeared in the doorway, shaking with righteous anger.
burst, fit, outburst He slammed the door in a fit of anger. 
be filled with, feel, shake with, tremble with His eyes were filled with anger. She was trembling with anger.
express, give vent to, show, vent, voice Children give vent to their anger in various ways.
control, hide, suppress It is not healthy to suppress your anger.
arouse, cause, fill sb with, fuel, provoke, stir up His words fuelled her anger.
change to, give way to, turn to His joy soon turned to anger when he heard the full story. 
boil over/up, bubble up, build up, flare (up), grow, mount, rise, well up Henry stood up, his anger rising.
abate, drain, evaporate, fade, subside The anger drained from his face. Her anger subsided as quickly as it had flared up. 
in ~ He raised his voice in anger.
with ~ His face was flushed with anger.
~ at I felt a sudden anger at his suggestion.
~ over There is much anger over plans to close the hospital.
a feeling of anger, in a moment of anger He had walked out in a moment of anger. 
narrow, sharp, steep The plane started descending at a steep angle.
shallow, slight, wide The instrument has a wide angle of view.
awkward, crazy, odd The calf's legs were splayed out at awkward angles. 
form, make The vertical line makes an angle with the horizontal line.
draw Draw a 130° angle in your exercise books.
adjust, alter, change She adjusted the angle of the legs to make the table stand more firmly.
move through, rotate through Each joint can move through an angle of 90°. 
at an ~ The tower of Pisa leans at an angle.
unusual The subject is considered from an unusual angle.
camera The variety of camera angles gives her photographs interest.
consider/look at/see/view sth from We've looked at the problem from every possible angle but still haven't found a solution. Seeing herself from this angle, she realized how like her mother she looked. 
angle of vision How you see the building depends on your angle of vision.
from all angles You need to consider the question from all angles. 
cause The loss of a pet can cause some people real anguish.
experience, feel, suffer He suffered the anguish of watching his son go to prison. 
in (sb's) ~ to cry out/groan/scream in anguish In her anguish, she turned to her father for help.
with ~ His mouth felt dry with anguish.
a cry/groan/scream of anguish, pain and anguish All the pain and anguish inside her rose like a tidal wave. 
bear Despite everything, she bore her former boss no animosity.
without ~ They managed to discuss their past disagreements without animosity.
~ between The two rivals for party leadership insist that there is no animosity between them.
formally The region was formally annexed in 1892.
to The territory had been annexed to Poland. 
celebrate, commemorate, mark They held celebrations to mark the anniversary of Mozart's death. 
be, fall The anniversary of the founding of the charity falls on 12th November. 
on sb's ~ He bought her a diamond ring on their tenth wedding anniversary. 
dramatic, surprise Baker issued his surprise announcement in Paris after two hours of talks. 
issue, make We will make a formal announcement tomorrow.
greet, welcome The announcement of the ceasefire was greeted with relief. 
come The announcement of further job losses comes at a bad time. 
in a/the ~ In an announcement to Parliament, the minister said that the peace negotiations would continue.
intensely, really His air of calm superiority annoyed her intensely. It really annoys me when people forget to say thank you.
be beginning to The wasps were beginning to annoy me. 
do sth just/only to annoy sb I only stay out late to annoy my parents. 
make sb His attitude made me extremely annoyed. 
about I was a little annoyed about the whole thing.
at We enjoyed the game but were rather annoyed at being beaten.
by I was quite annoyed by her remarks.
with Susan felt slightly annoyed with herself. 
relative This British author has chosen to live in relative anonymity on a Pacific island. 
ensure, guarantee, preserve, protect Our company promises to preserve the anonymity of all its clients.
demand, insist on, prefer, request, seek Some people prefer the anonymity of life in a big city. 
brief, quick, short The short answer to your query is that he has acted completely illegally.
blunt, direct, straight I expect a straight answer to a straight question.
dusty (= unsatisfactory) I complained to the water company and received a very dusty answer. 
get, have, receive Did you ever get an answer to your letter?
give sb, offer Please give her your answer, so she can make the necessary arrangements. She repeated her question, but he offered no answer.
guess, know I think you can guess the answer?they won't lend us the money. 
come The answer came in a postcard she sent from Devon. 
in ~ to In answer to your enquiries, I can only say that we did not find her work of a satisfactory standard.
clear, clear-cut, obvious The obvious answer would be to cancel the party.
have, know We are aware of this problem, but we do not have the answer.
arrive at, come up with, find We have arrived at an answer which we hope will satisfy everyone.
give sb, offer, provide If you want to save time, this machine will provide the answer. 
to There is no easy answer to the problem. 
have/know all the answers He's so arrogant, he thinks he knows all the answers. 
written This part of the exam requires a written answer. 
guess It's not worth guessing the answer, as you may lose marks.
print, write Please print the answers to questions 1 to 9. 
to Do you know the answer to the question? 
feel, have She felt nothing but antagonism towards her boss. He seems to have an antagonism to the local people.
arouse, cause, create, lead to, provoke The new rules will create a lot of antagonism. 
cultural, social Social anthropology examines family relationships in detail. > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
be widely anticipated It is widely anticipated that she will resign. 
get up to, perform The youngsters got up to all sorts of amusing antics.
enjoy, laugh at, smile at She was laughing at his antics. 
mutual They have a mutual antipathy to each other.
personal Despite his personal antipathy to me he was still able to be polite.
between There was a lot of antipathy between the two doctors.
~ to/towards I feel a profound antipathy to using any weapon. 
classical, Greek, Roman, etc. legends from Greek antiquity
be lost in The origins of this ancient structure are lost in antiquity. 
classical, Egyptian, Greek, Roman, etc. 
collect He collects Egyptian and Roman antiquities. 
~ of The company represented the antithesis of everything he admired. 
become, get, grow The bus was late and Sue began to get anxious.
make sb The delays only made him more anxious. 
increasingly She was watching the clock and becoming increasingly anxious.
naturally, understandably Final-year students are naturally anxious about getting work after graduation.
unduly There's no need to get unduly anxious on my account.
about I'm becoming very anxious about my son.
for We are extremely anxious for her safety. 
fall into, sink into Once defeated, he sank into apathy.
lead to Such attitudes can only lead to apathy. 
profusely He apologized profusely for the damage he had caused.
humbly I do apologize most humbly.
want to, wish to, would like to I would like to apologize most sincerely for any embarrassment caused. 
for She apologized for being late.
to He apologized to his colleagues. 
do/must apologize I must apologize for cancelling our meeting at such short notice. 
absolutely, the most, quite, utterly They had to wait for hours in the most appalling weather. 
become It soon became apparent that the company was losing money.
make sth He made it apparent that he was very annoyed. 
all too His unhappiness was all too apparent.
immediately, instantly The extent of their injuries was not immediately apparent.
painfully Local suspicion of the incomers was painfully apparent. 
to His lack of experience was quite apparent to everyone. 
directly He went over the heads of union officials, appealing directly to the workforce. 
for, to Police have appealed to the public for information about the crime. 
against She appealed unsuccessfully against her conviction for murder.
to He has decided to appeal to the European Court. 
enormously, really, strongly The prospect of teaching such bright children appealed enormously. The idea of retiring early really appeals to me.
to These characters will appeal directly to children's imaginations. 
suddenly A man suddenly appeared in the doorway.
from nowhere A police officer appeared as if from nowhere and ordered us to halt. 
at She is currently appearing at the Liverpool Playhouse. 
appear on television She regularly appears on television. 
at He will appear at Manchester Crown Court next week. 
appear before a court/judge/magistrate The man will appear before magistrates in Birmingham later today.
appear in court A man has appeared in court charged with the murder of seven women. 
diagnose > Special page at ILLNESS 
poor, small The symptoms of depression can include poor appetite and weight loss. I have always had a small appetite.
have She had no appetite and began to lose weight.
build up, develop, work up I went for a walk to work up an appetite for breakfast.
get back, regain After a week she had regained her appetite.
give sb All that digging has given me an appetite.
give an edge to, increase The cold air had given an edge to my appetite.
control, curb, suppress (technical), take away, take the edge off Some drugs can suppress the appetite.
ruin, spoil This is something you can eat between meals without ruining your appetite.
satisfy This meal will satisfy even the healthiest appetite. 
come back, return His appetite has returned to normal. 
a lack of appetite, a loss of appetite The symptoms include aching limbs and a loss of appetite. 
public The BBC recognizes the public appetite for serious information.
increase, revive, whet Reading the first story whetted my appetite for more.
for His appetite for power had grown. 
gentle, muted, polite To muted applause a small flag was raised over the building. 
burst, ripple, roar, round The crowd gave them a round of applause. 
be greeted with, draw, earn, get, receive, win The speech drew loud applause.
break into, burst into The audience broke into applause.
acknowledge She stood back and acknowledged the applause of the crowd.
deserve He deserves the respect and applause of his colleagues. 
break out, greet sb/sth A great roar of applause broke out. Wild applause greeted this remark.
die away/down, subside The applause died down as the curtain closed. 
to ~ He left the stage to thunderous applause.
~ for There was a ripple of applause for the speaker. 
switch off, turn off Always switch off appliances that are not in use.
run, use Many household appliances are expensive to run.
suitable, suitably qualified Grant payments will be made to suitable applicants.
disappointed, unsuccessful Unsuccessful applicants may appeal against the decision.
attract The advertisement attracted a number of applicants.
shortlist Eighteen applicants were shortlisted.
apply All applicants should apply in writing. 
for There were over fifty applicants for the job. 
equally These principles apply equally in all cases. 
to These restrictions do not apply to us. 
the same applies British companies are subject to international laws and the same applies to companies in Europe. 
sparingly Apply the insecticide sparingly. 
over Apply the glue evenly over both surfaces.
to Never apply the cleaning liquid directly to the surface. 
detailed, full, thorough A detailed appraisal of the scheme will now be carried out.
carry out, give, make He was asked to give an independent appraisal. She made a quick appraisal of the other guests. 
interview We are holding staff appraisal interviews. 
have They have little appreciation of the arts.
cultivate, develop, gain I have now developed an appreciation of poetry. 
in ~ She gazed in appreciation at the scene. 
express, show I would like to express my appreciation and thanks to you all. 
in ~ (of) I'll be sending them a donation in appreciation of their help.
with ~ ‘Thank you,’ she murmured, with heartfelt appreciation.
a lack of appreciation, (as) a token of your appreciation As a token of our appreciation we would like to offer you this small gift. 
growing There is a growing appreciation of the need for change. 
gain The course helped me to gain a deeper appreciation of what scientific research involves. 
of She had no appreciation of the difficulties we were facing. 
make sb The long delay had made me quite apprehensive. 
about She was deeply apprehensive about her future.
of He was rather apprehensive of failure. 
from The army approached from the south. 
fast, rapidly The time is fast approaching when we will have to replace these old machines. 
directly It's best to approach her directly. 
be difficult to She found her father difficult to approach. 
about Have you approached John about doing a concert?
for I approached the bank for a loan. 
closely Here Wordsworth's verse movement closely approaches that of Gray.
not nearly, not remotely There is no other player even remotely approaching her calibre. 
full, total, unqualified, warm, wholehearted The scheme did not meet unqualified approval.
final, initial, preliminary, prior All development requires the prior approval of the planning authority.
seek, submit sth for We have submitted a design for approval.
gain, get, meet with, obtain, receive, win You are not allowed to build anything without first obtaining the approval of the local authority.
give, grant The government has now given its approval for the new examinations.
express, nod, show The people listening nodded approval. 
on ~ The goods were supplied on approval (= they could be sent back if they were not satisfactory).
with ~ Jane's father regards her fiance with approval.
with/without sb's ~ You may not decorate the flat without the landlord's approval.
~ for He won approval for his project.
~ from We're waiting for approval from the authorities. 
a nod of approval She gave him a nod of approval.
a roar of approval There was a roar of approval from the crowd.
a seal/stamp of approval The government has given its seal of approval to the project.
subject to approval The offer is subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting. 
close, good, nearest, reasonable This is the nearest approximation of cost that they can give us.
crude, rough This is only a crude approximation of the actual conditions in the area. 
make We do not have the true figures so we will have to make some approximations.
great, natural, special He has a natural aptitude for this work. 
fairly, rather, somewhat, to some extent The decision is to some extent arbitrary.
in an ~ The islands lie in a wide arc just off the mainland. 
dig sth up, discover sth, find sth, uncover sth, unearth sth examples of life thousands of years ago, unearthed by archaeologists > Note at JOB 
nglican, Roman Catholic 
be appointed (as), become, be consecrated, be enthroned (as), be made, succeed sb as He was enthroned as archbishop in Canterbury Cathedral in 1980. 
of He was made Archbishop of Milan. 
Gothic, Romanesque, etc.
a school/style of architecture > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
local She knows the local area very well.
surrounding The storms hit Edinburgh and the surrounding area.
move into/to A lot of new people have moved into the area recently.
be scattered over, be spread over Wreckage from the plane was scattered over a large area. 
in an/the ~ Few homes in the area had electricity.
outside an/the ~ I live outside the London area.
~ around/round the area around London 
in an/the ~ I'll meet you in the reception area. 
complex, difficult, problem, sensitive Taxation is a very complex area.
growth The big growth area of recent years has been in health clubs.
grey The proposals contain too many grey areas (= aspects that are not clear). 
cover The course covers two main subject areas.
identify The primary need is to identify problem areas. 
in an/the ~ There have been some exciting new developments in this area. 
an area of activity/life People with this disability can cope well in most areas of life.
an area of concern/difficulty We are generally pleased with how the scheme is operating but there are one or two areas of concern.
floor, surface A large building with a floor area of 100m2. 
cover, have The estate covers an area of 106 acres. 
over They were arguing over who should have the car that day.
with She's always arguing with her mother. 
convincingly, persuasively, plausibly, successfully The report argues convincingly that economic help should be given to these countries.
be disposed to, wish to I would wish to argue that appreciation of the arts should be encouraged for its own sake.
be prepared to Are you prepared to argue that killing is sometimes justified?
go on to In her paper she goes on to argue that scientists do not yet know enough about the nature of the disease.
be possible to It is possible to argue that the rules are too strict.
against She argued against a rise in interest rates.
for The general argued for extending the ceasefire.
in favour of They argued in favour of stricter punishments. 
from Some learning difficulties arise from the way children are taught at school.
out of The current debate arose out of the concerns of parents. 
do By the age of ten, the children can do simple arithmetic.
check I've worked out the price, but I need to check the arithmetic. 
with The soldiers were all armed with automatic rifles. 
penetrate, pierce An arrow had pierced his armour. 
a suit of armour He wore a suit of heavy armour and carried a sword. 
bear, carry The right to bear arms is enshrined in the constitution.
call sb to (formal) He called his comrades to arms (= urged them to fight).
take up (formal) The people took up arms to defend their country.
lay down (formal) The government called on them to lay down their arms and surrender.
supply He was accused of supplying arms to terrorists 
under ~ (formal) There were more than a million men under arms during the American Civil War. 
savour, smell As soon as I opened the front door I smelled the distinctive aroma of fresh coffee.
be filled with, have The room was filled with a strong aroma of woodsmoke. 
linger, waft The aroma of fresh baking wafted towards her. 
alternative, better, different, new, other It may be necessary to make alternative arrangements.
special There are special arrangements for people working overseas.
domestic, funeral, holiday, living, pension, seating, security, sleeping, travel, working Their domestic arrangements were considered unconventional at the time. 
complete, confirm, finalize Arrangements for the trip have now been completed.
discuss We are just discussing the final arrangements for the concert.
upset All her careful arrangements had been upset! 
stand As far as I know the arrangement still stands.
fall through The catering arrangements for the conference have fallen through. 
for Arrangements for the funeral are complete.
~ with I have made arrangements with the shop for the goods to be delivered here. 
business, financial It's purely a business arrangement?there's no need to get emotionally involved.
have The company has a special arrangement with the bank.
agree, come to, make She made an arrangement with her employer whereby she worked a reduced number of hours. 
by (an/the) ~ Viewing of the property is only possible by arrangement with the owner. The couple have an arrangement by which they each contribute equally to the cost of the house.
under an/the ~ Under this arrangement you can pay for the goods over a longer period.
~ with He finally came to an arrangement with his landlord. 
by prior arrangement A tour of the theatre is available by prior arrangement. 
physical Even the physical arrangement of the classroon can influence the way children learn.
design, do Who did this beautiful flower arrangement? 
fall into, get into, owe They fell into arrears with their rent. The government has agreed to pay all arrears owed to members of the armed forces.
accumulate The country had accumulated arrears of $80 million on loans of $400 million.
recover The local authority must try to recover arrears of rent. 
amount to sth, total sth By this time the arrears amounted to £12,000. 
in ~ She was six months in arrears with the mortgage. You will be paid monthly in arrears.
~ on There have been sharp increases in arrears on interest payments. 
timely The timely arrival of the cheque took away the need to borrow money.
expected, imminent, impending I told her of my brother's expected arrival. 
announce, herald, signal A fanfare of trumpets heralded the arrival of the King.
greet The staff greeted the arrival of the new head teacher with excitement.
on/upon (sb's) ~ Guests receive dinner upon arrival at the hotel.
with the ~ With the arrival of John's friends, the party became really enjoyable.
~ in their arrival in Paris 
arrival on the scene They were saved by the arrival on the scene of another boat.
arrivals and departures There are 120 arrivals and departures every day.
late Someone should stay here to meet the late arrivals.
latest, new, recent The club has a dinner to welcome new arrivals to the town. We're expecting a new arrival (= a baby) in the family soon. 
have She had the arrogance to believe the law did not apply to her.
attack > Note at CRIME(for verbs) 
widen The surgeon will widen her arteries.
clog up Too much fatty food will make your arteries more likely to clog up. 
hardening of the arteries (= a disease of the arteries) She suffers from hardening of the arteries.
feature, lead/leading, review A leading article in ‘The Times’ accused the minister of lying.
occasional (= not part of a series) It was her job to commission occasional articles.
offending An advertisement will now replace the offending article.
do I'm doing an article about ways of preventing pollution.
read, see Did you see the article on Europe in today's paper?
carry, feature, print, publish, run The magazine refused to print his article. 
appear The article appears in this week's edition of ‘The Spectator’.
discuss sth, examine sth, explore sth, focus on sth, look at sth The article looks at two questions.
continue, go on The article goes on to quote from Darwin's ‘Origin of Species’.
in an/the ~ She admitted she was wrong in an article in the newspaper.
~ about, ~ by an article about atomic clocks by Professor Keith Runcorn
an article called/entitled/headed sth an article entitled ‘Think Yourself Thin’ 
key The key articles of the constitution can only be changed by referendum. 
be in breach of, breach, contravene, flout, infringe, violate The actions of the organization are in breach of Article 12 of the treaty. 
provide sth, specify sth, state sth Article 10 provides that all businesses must be registered correctly. 
under an/the ~ The judge ordered the child's return home under Article 12 of the Convention. 
the terms of an article The terms of Article 3 will be changed by the new government. 
finished The finished article takes two months to manufacture.
the genuine Fake designer watches are sold at a fraction of the price of the genuine article.
take Names of countries in English do not usually take an article. 
carefully, clearly, well She spoke slowly, articulating each word clearly.
clearly, well She cannot articulate her feelings very well.
heavy The enemy has enough heavy artillery to win the war. 
train, unit The soldiers of the artillery train had panicked and cut the traces of their horses. nuclear artillery units 
from The road ascends steeply from the harbour. 
cold, dead The fire had died to cold ashes.
fine Fine ash covered the hill near the volcano.
cloud A cloud of ash rose from the volcano. 
flick, tap (used about cigarette ash) He flicked ash into the ashtray.
reduce sth to, turn to ~es a village reduced to ashes by war (figurative) All her dreams had turned to ashes. 
fall Ash from the volcano fell over a wide area. 
rise from the ashes (figurative) The party had risen, like a phoenix, from the ashes of electoral disaster. 
scatter His ashes were scattered on his beloved farm. 
gently, quietly, softly ‘How do you feel?’ she asked softly.
amiably, conversationally, politely ‘Did you sleep well?’, he asked politely.
casually, dryly, innocently ‘Oh, Sue went too, did she?’ I asked innocently (= pretending I did not know that this was important).
anxiously, apprehensively, fearfully, solicitously ‘Will he be all right?’, Sabrina asked anxiously.
legitimately We can legitimately ask what competence an official based in Whitehall has to solve the problems of rural Scotland.
long to, want to She longed to ask Mary if she knew what was wrong. I wanted to ask him a question.
dare (to) I wondered how old she was but I didn't dare ask.
forget to I completely forgot to ask his name. 
about He asked about her family. 
get asked sth I often get asked that.
if you don't mind me/my asking How old are you?if you don't mind my asking? 
nicely If you ask her nicely, she'll give you a sweet. 
basic, broad, general Questions also cover much broader aspects of general health and fitness.
have The project has two main aspects.
take on Events began to take on a more sinister aspect.
consider, cover, deal with, discuss, emphasize, examine, explore, focus on, look at, study We will be looking at many different aspects of pollution.
demonstrate, illuminate, illustrate a unique collection illustrating aspects of Irish transport history
from the … ~ This scheme is very good from the social aspect.
all aspects of sth, (in) every aspect (of sth) The service was excellent in every aspect. 
take She took an aspirin and went to bed.
dissolve Dissolve two aspirin in water. 
dissolve Aspirin dissolves quickly. 
plan to, plot to He was executed in 1887 for plotting to assassinate the tsar. 
against Better street lighting has helped reduce the number of assaults against women.
assault and battery (law) > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
all-out, direct, frontal, full-scale, major, massive After an all-out assault the village was captured by the enemy.
sustained She used the article to make a sustained assault on her former political allies.
carry out, launch (into), lead, make, mount Enemy troops launched an assault on the town. He launched into a verbal assault on tabloid journalism.
come under The factory came under assault from soldiers in the mountains
withstand The garrison was built to withstand assaults. 
course They took part in a vigorous army assault course.
under ~ Today these values are under assault.
begin to The French began to assemble an army
for We had assembled for the first rehearsal.
fully/partially assembled The shelves are available in kit form or fully assembled. 
common, general, universal Medicine is, by common assent, a good profession. There was general assent about his achievements.
royal The Education Act received the royal assent in 1944. 
give sth, grant The government gave their assent to the project.
express, grunt, indicate, nod He nodded his assent when I asked if I could leave. 
in ~ She smiled in assent.
with/without sb's ~ The raising of taxes without the assent of Parliament was declared illegal. 
a murmur/nod of assent The suggestion was greeted with a murmur of assent. 
simple The argument needs to progress beyond the simple assertion that criminals are made not born.
make How can you make such an assertion?
justify, prove, support Your assertion is not supported by the facts.
challenge, question Researchers have recently challenged these assertions.
continuous, regular Examination is by continuous assessment.
personal, subjective He was shrewd in his personal assessments.
needs, performance, quality, risk Needs assessment is crucial if the hospital is to deliver effective health care.
carry out, do, give, make, undertake The new manager carried out an assessment of the sales department. 
accept, take on Why did you take on this assignment if you're so busy?
refuse If you refuse this assignment you risk losing your job.
on ~ The photographer is on assignment in China at the moment. 
give, hand out, set The teacher set an assignment on pollution.
hand in The students handed in their assignments. 
on an assignment on Roman history 
greatly, materially We have been greatly assisted by individuals and organizations.
in He had to assist her in opening the gates.
with She offered to assist with the marketing of the product. 
personal I'll ask my personal assistant to deal with this.
administrative, care, catering, checkout, clerical, laboratory, library, production, research, sales, shop, technical She took up a post as research assistant in the Department of Pharmacology. 
employ (sb as), have She had a clerical assistant to do her paperwork.
get, hire (sb as), recruit (sb as) I'm getting a new assistant next month.
to assistant to the Production Manager > Note at JOB 
meet The association meets four times a year. > Note at ORGANIZATION(for more verbs) 
free It was to be a free association of equal partners.
maintain They have maintained a close association with a college in the US. 
in ~ with (= together with) The book was published in association with British Heritage.
~ with His association with such criminals can only destroy him. 
freedom of association One of the most important political freedoms is freedom of association. 
have The city has had a long association with the mining industry.
form You want the child to form an association between good behaviour and rewards.
demonstrate, find, prove, show The research showed an association between diet and various diseases. 
by ~ Dogs learn mainly by association.
in ~ with (= together with) We are working in association with several charities.
~ with the traditional association of the Democrats with minority interests 
guilty/tainted by association He was considered tainted by association with the corrupt regime. 
cultural, historical, literary Tourists visit the city for its historical associations. 
have, hold Does the name ‘Baxter’ have any associations for you?
call up, evoke, spark off, trigger The smell of fresh bread triggers all kinds of associations for me. 
automatically, naturally I automatically assumed that you knew about this.
reasonably, safely I think we can safely assume that this situation will continue. 
be fair to, be reasonable to, be safe to It is reasonable to assume that the economy will continue to improve.
be easy to It's all too easy to assume that people know what they are doing. 
let us assume Let us assume for a moment that the plan succeeds. 
formal, official, personal, verbal, written He gave me his personal assurance that the vehicle was safe. 
have We now have a firm assurance of support from the government.
accept, be satisfied with They accepted his assurance that patients would be treated as soon as possible.
go back on, renege on He accused the minister of reneging on assurances given earlier. 
despite/in spite of assurances Despite assurances from the government, the chemicals are known to be dangerous. 
calm, quiet She spoke with calm assurance. 
show Even at a very young age she showed a great deal of assurance. 
be, feel, look, rest, seem You can rest assured that your children are in good hands. 
very Although the situation was tense, her voice was calm and very assured.
at She was quite astonished at his rudeness.
by He was astonished by the amount of junk in the house. 
hide She could not hide her astonishment. 
in ~ She gazed at him in astonishment.
to sb's ~ Then, to my great astonishment, he started to cry.
with ~ Everyone gasped with astonishment.
~ at He expressed astonishment at the results. 
apply for, claim, request, seek She fled the country, and is now seeking asylum in Sweden.
deny sb, refuse sb Over 400 people have been refused asylum. 
an application for asylum, the right to asylum Those fleeing from the war have the right to asylum. 
in ~ He spent three years in an asylum. 
fine, good, great, Olympic, outstanding, talented, top, world-class one of the greatest athletes of all time
natural She has the build and strength of a natural athlete.
train The athletes are training hard for the Olympics.
compete, perform Our field athletes have performed well. 
carnival, electric, heady, lively Before the parade, the atmosphere was electric.
create She tries to create an atmosphere of calm and security for her children.
poison, ruin, sour, spoil His blunt comments really soured the atmosphere.
clear, improve, lighten His funny remarks lightened the atmosphere.
be aware of, be sensitive to, sense She could sense the hostile atmosphere in the room. 
be charged (with sth) The atmosphere was charged with excitement.
pervade sth, prevail A relaxed atmosphere prevails in the club. 
between Since their argument there had been a strained atmosphere between them. 
poison, pollute Pesticides can kill wildlife and pollute the atmosphere.
clear Last night's storm had cleared the atmosphere. 
enter, leave, re-enter The spaceship should re-enter the earth's atmosphere later today.
be emitted/released into, escape into Dangerous gases have escaped into the upper atmosphere. 
be responsible for, carry out, commit, perpetrate In the war, both sides committed atrocities.
become, grow We've grown very attached to this village and wouldn't want to move.
to Mr Wells is obviously quite attached to you. 
firmly, securely Make sure all the wires remain firmly attached.
to The ball was attached to a length of thin chain. 
carry out Two teenagers carried out a frenzied attack on a local shopkeeper.
be subjected to He was subjected to a violent attack. 
happen, occur, take place Where did the attack happen? 
series The southern border towns have suffered a series of attacks. 
carry out, launch, lead, make, mount, spearhead The soldiers mounted an all-out attack on the village.
come under, suffer They came under sustained attack from the air.
survive, withstand Most of the population would stand little chance of surviving a nuclear attack.
press home, renew Bombers pressed home their attack, causing severe damage to harbour installations. 
happen, occur, take place The attack took place under cover of darkness.
under ~ The province has been under attack from the rebels.
personal Is this a personal attack on the president, or a criticism of the government?
deliver, go on the, launch, make, mount, unleash Doctors have gone on the attack, accusing the government of incompetence.
come under, provoke All politicians come under attack for their views. The government's decision has provoked an attack from leaders of the health service. 
a/the line of attack The first line of attack is often name-calling.
open to attack He has laid himself wide open to attack. 
experience, have, suffer (from) He suffers from attacks of anxiety.
fully, perfectly We believe that this level of performance is fully attainable.
by This standard of English should be easily attainable by every child in the class. 
be asked to, be invited to He was invited to attend a seminar in Paris. 
well attended The event was well attended. 
car park, cloakroom, garage, lavatory, museum, petrol pump, pool Pool attendants kept a constant watch on the swimmers. > Note at JOB 
converted Her photography studio was a converted attic.
mutual They shared a powerful mutual attraction.
see I could now see the attraction of a steady job and regular income.
have, hold Long holidays hold no attraction for him.
exert All matter exerts a gravitational attraction. 
~ to/towards His attraction to you is obvious. 
the centre of attraction Sophie was plainly the centre of attraction in the room. 
added, big, chief, great, main, major, obvious, special, star The main attraction of the place is the nightlife.
have A freelance career has the attraction of flexibility.
be, prove Feeding the animals proved a popular attraction for visitors to the farm. 
for The lack of heat was an attraction for cyclists. 
desirable, essential, important, necessary, positive, useful Patience is an essential attribute for a teacher.
cultural, personal, physical, social Her physical attributes were much admired. 
hold The estate is holding an auction to raise money.
conduct My father will be conducting the auction tomorrow.
attend, go to He regularly attended auctions.
put sth up for The horse will be put up for public auction.
be/come/go up for The paintings will come up for auction next month.
at ~ I try to buy furniture at auctions because it is cheaper that way. The house was sold at auction for half a million pounds.
big, capacity, large, mass, packed, vast, wide The museum is trying to attract a wider audience.
address, perform to, play to He prefers playing to live audiences.
attract, draw, pull in Such a well-known politician should draw a big audience.
reach We want to reach a target audience that's younger in age.
captivate, grip, thrill The film has thrilled audiences throughout the country.
move The audience was visibly moved. 
applaud, cheer The audience cheered loudly.
before/in front of an/the ~ He felt nervous standing up in front of the large audience. 
give sb, grant sb The Pope granted him an audience. 
with He sought a private audience with the Queen. 
district The council and district auditors have agreed that the deals were unlawful. 
to His firm has been appointed the auditors to the company. 
the Auditor General, an auditors' report > Note at PROFESSIONAL(for verbs) 
ugust noun > Note at MONTH 
be surrounded by, exude, have, retain He exuded an aura of wealth and power.
take on The picture seemed to take on the aura of an ancient work of art.
create, give sb/sth The sunlight created an aura of beauty around her.
about, ~ of There was always a faint aura of mystery about him. 
cast doubt on, doubt Some journalists have cast doubt on the authenticity of the official version of events.
a certificate of authenticity Despite its certificate of authenticity, the painting was found to be a fake.
a debate over the authenticity of sth There has been some debate over the authenticity of his will.
prior You will need prior authorization from your bank. 
ask for, seek He asked for authorization to proceed with the plan.
refuse (sb) The government will probably refuse authorization under these conditions.
with/without ~ You cannot take a day off without authorization.
~ for Formal authorization for the trip was given last week.
~ from The change of plan would require authorization from the minister. 
give sb, sign He signed his autograph for the little girl.
get, have Can I have your autograph, please? 
effectively Although officially a dependent territory the island is effectively autonomous.
from Higher education is relatively autonomous from the state. 
find sth, reveal sth, show sth The autopsy revealed that he had been poisoned. 
on They carried out an autopsy on the victim. 
check, ensure Before travelling we must ensure the availability of petrol and oil.
reduce, restrict They want to restrict the availability of abortion. 
subject to availability All holiday bookings are subject to availability. 
happen, strike sth The avalanche struck the ski resort in the late afternoon.
kill sb They were killed by an avalanche in the Swiss Alps. 
in an/the ~ They died in an avalanche. 
of We've been almost buried under the avalanche of mail. 
very Peter was a very average golfer.
strong He has a strong aversion to dogs.
therapy I underwent aversion therapy for my addiction to smoking. 
to Have you developed an aversion to babies? 
dip, mousse > Special page at FRUIT 
be Most accidents are easily avoidable. 
be, lie At night, he lay awake beside her.
come, jerk Claudia came awake slowly. Stephen jerked awake from a nightmare.
keep, remain, stay He was struggling to stay awake.
jerk sb, jolt sb, nudge sb, shake sb A few hours later Benjamin shook me awake.
keep sb The noise had kept her awake. 
fully, wide By now, the baby was wide awake.
hardly, only half It was very early and I was only half awake.
still The children were still awake when we went out. 
from She was just awakening from sleep. 
be rudely awakened He was rudely awakened by the sound of drilling. 
bravery, design, literary, man of the match, etc. His goalkeeping won him the man of the match award. 
give sb, hand out, make (sb), present (sb with) The award was made for his work in cancer research.
carry off, earn (sb), get, receive, win Stephen's quick thinking has earned him a bravery award.
go to sb The best director award went to Sam Mendes for ‘American Beauty’. 
~ from to receive an award from the Queen 
pay The union is unhappy with this year's pay award.
make The judge has the power to make discretionary awards. 
make sb We need to make people more aware of these problems. 
fully, perfectly Mr Bush did not appear fully aware of the importance of this act.
hardly, not really He was not really aware of what he was doing.
horribly, painfully Moran was painfully aware of Luke's absence. 
of The police are well aware of the dangers. 
be/stand in, hold sb in Most people hold him in some awe.
inspire Everest has always inspired awe and respect among climbers. 
in/with ~ We gazed in awe at the massive building.
~ at What I mostly felt was awe at her achievement. 
a sense of awe They experienced a tremendous sense of awe in the cathedral. 
be, feel, look, smell, sound, taste I felt awful when I realized what I'd done. The fish tasted awful. 
absolutely, the most She's the most awful snob.
brandish, carry, hold, wield A man used to wielding an axe fought best on foot.
fall The executioner's axe fell. 
a blow from/of an axe With a few swift blows of the axe, she severed the cable. 
swing, wield Wielding the axe on the prison plan would be one way of saving money.
face Up to 300 workers are facing the axe at a struggling Merseyside firm.
save sb/sth from Patients are delighted their local hospital has been saved from the axe. 
fall We were expecting bad news but had no idea where the axe would fall (= where the loss/reduction would be). 
low birthweight, small, tiny Smoking in pregnancy increases the risk of producing a low birthweight baby.
bouncing (informal), healthy, normal A bonny, bouncing baby, Freddie was her heart's desire and joy.
growing He took an interest in the growing baby even before it was born.
have I want to have a baby.
conceive, make babies (informal) Darling, I just want to stay with you and make babies!
carry, expect She's not sure yet how many babies she's carrying. She's expecting a baby in July.
deliver The baby was delivered by a midwife.
lose She lost her baby (= had a miscarriage) three months into her pregnancy.
burp The baby needed burping after every bottle.
wean You can start weaning your baby when it's four months old.
change You should change your baby about six times a day.
comfort, cradle, cuddle, hold, pick up, rock, take She rocked the baby to sleep in her arms. Could you take the baby? I need to bring in the washing.
adopt They would like to adopt a newborn baby.
have adopted, put up for adoption She decided to put her baby up for adoption.
sleep like He was so tired after all his exertions, he slept like a baby. 
be due The baby is due in October.
arrive, be born Their first baby arrived exactly nine months after the wedding.
babble, coo The baby cooed happily on the rug.
be sick, dribble, drool Babies drool a lot when they are teething.
kick, move I could feel the baby moving inside me.
talk I didn't use baby talk with my children, but used proper words right from the start.
bad, stiff He's off work with a bad back. 
stretch He yawned and stretched his back as he got out of bed.
arch The cat arched its back and hissed at the dog.
stiffen His back stiffened as he saw the photographers waiting.
behind your ~ They blindfolded him and tied his hands behind his back. 
e was carrying a small child on his back. She was lying on her back on the sofa.
in the/your ~ I've got a nagging pain in my lower back.
~ to He was standing with his back to the fire. 
sb's back is turned (figurative) The boss was certain that the staff would stop working as soon as his back was turned.
back to back The children sat back to back so they couldn't see each others' drawings.
a pat/slap on the back He smiled and gave me a hearty slap on the back. 
turn your back (on sb/sth) Actors should never turn their backs on the audience. 
around/round the ~ If you'd like to come round the back (= to the area behind the house), I'll show you the garden.
at the ~ We could only get seats at the back.
down the ~ My money's all fallen down the back of the cushion.
in the ~ Two passengers sat in the back of the car.
to the ~ The man was refusing to go to the back of the queue.
towards the ~ The arts page is usually towards the back of the newspaper. 
back to front I had my pullover on back to front (= with the back where the front should be). 
against a/the ~ of The conference begins this week against a backdrop of unmitigated gloom.
~ for The Alps provided the perfect backdrop for a romantic holiday.
~ of The large bay has a superb backdrop of mountains.
~ to War is more than just a dramatic backdrop to the novel. 
broad, narrow It is important to have a broad educational background.
come from, have He came from a very privileged background.
be drawn from The students are drawn from very mixed social backgrounds. 
be in sth Her background was in biology and medicine. 
describe, give (sb), outline, provide (sb with) The book provides the background to the revolution.
form Those discussions formed the background to the decision. 
against the ~ Against that general background I shall give you a more detailed view of current medical practice.
against a/the ~ The areas of water stood out against the dark background.
in the ~ The mountains in the background were capped with snow.
blend into, fade into, melt/merge into, recede/retreat into, slip into The dispute over the new contract allowed her other problems to fade into the background. He had learnt how to melt invisibly into the background.
keep/remain/stay in He prefers to remain in the background and let his assistant deal with the press.
hover in I could see my secretary hovering in the background. 
in the ~ There was a radio on in the background. 
cause, produce, provoke Such a decision may provoke a backlash from their supporters.
~ from They face a backlash from shareholders. 
attack, destroy, fight, kill Neither chilling nor freezing kills all bacteria. 
a badge of office His badge of office, a large gold key, hung round his neck. 
about Officials say they're baffled about the cause of the gas explosion.
as to The referee remains baffled as to why his decision caused so much anger.
by The doctors are completely baffled by her illness. 
excess At the airport I found that I had 100kg of excess baggage.
emotional, spiritual (figurative) She's still carrying all that emotional baggage from her first marriage. 
check in Where do we check in our baggage?
claim, reclaim Let's claim our baggage first. 
train Extensive baggage trains followed the troops. 
send in Their landlord has threatened to send in the bailiffs if they don't pay their rent. 
seize sth The bailiffs seized the car and house. 
freshly/newly baked The house was filled with the scent of freshly baked bread. 
on He balanced the glasses carefully on the tray. 
seek to, try to The plan seeks to balance two important objectives.
against We have to balance the risks of the new strategy against the possible benefits.
with She tries to balance the needs of her children with those of her employer. 
go He started to go bald in his twenties. 
match, We're organizing a charity ball.
at a/the ~ She met him at head, hit, kick, roll, strike, throw The kids love to kick a ball against my wall.the college ball.
catch, stop He caught the ball.
chase She chased the ball all over the pitch.
return The fielders try to retrieve the ball quickly and return it to the bowler.
miss The goalkeeper missed the ball.
drop, let go of Oh no! He's dropped the ball.
fly, go, roll, sail The ball flew over the bar into the sea of Middlesbrough fans. The ball's gone over the fence.
hit, land The ball hit the wall and rolled along the road.
control, skills His ball control was excellent. > Special page at SPORT 
high, low He sent over a high ball.
cross, through a superb through ball from John Scott
hand He was penalized for hand ball. 
pick up, pounce on, punish He pounced on a loose ball and scored. 
from a great ball from Beckham 
fiery The sun was a fiery ball, low on the hills.
crystal (= used for telling fortunes) Without a crystal ball it's impossible to say where we'll be next year.
curl/roll (up) into The little girl curled up into a ball in her mother's arms.
form/make sth into, roll/screw sth (up) into, shape sth into He screwed the letter up into a tight ball. 
a ball and chain (figurative) The responsibility was a ball and chain around my ankle. 
go up in We went up in a balloon. 
by ~ She crossed the Atlantic by hot-air balloon. 
impose, introduce, place, put The EU has imposed a ban on the import of seal skins.
ease The ban on exports has now been eased.
defy The students took to the streets, defying a ban on political gatherings. 
apply to sth, cover sth The ban only covers tropical hardwood. 
bunch I bought a small bunch of bananas. 
skin (figurative) The company has acquired an unhappy knack of slipping on banana skins (= being led into making mistakes that make it look stupid).
grove, plantation > Special page at FRUIT 
put on, wind around/round, wrap around/round Wrap the bandage firmly around the injured limb.
around/round, ~ on She had a bandage on her arm. 
be in bandages, be swathed/wrapped in bandages He'll be in bandages for a few weeks. 
let out, make The engine let out a bang. Will the firework make a loud enough bang?
hear We suddenly heard an almighty bang from the kitchen. 
with a ~ She slammed the door with a loud bang. 
nasty He got a nasty bang on the head. 
central, clearing, commercial, investment, issuing, reserve, savings The central bank has put up interest rates. The bond will be priced by the issuing bank. She has her money in one of the largest savings banks.
lend sb sth The bank lent her money to buy a car.
underwrite sth A group of ten international banks is to underwrite and sell the bonds.
collapse, crash Investors lost millions when the bank crashed. 
from a/the ~ He got a large loan from the bank.
in a/the ~ I'll put half the money in the bank and spend the rest.
out of a/the ~ I need to get some money out of the bank. 
far, opposite, other We could see them waving on the opposite bank.
burst, overflow The River Frome had burst its banks after torrential rain. 
along a/the ~ We strolled along the river bank.
on a/the ~ a picnic on the banks of the Thames 
down a/the ~ The children rolled down the grassy bank.
become, go Hundreds of firms went bankrupt during the recession.
adjudge sb, adjudicate sb, declare sb, make sb She had to pay the mortgage after her husband was declared bankrupt. 
bear sth The demonstrators carried banners bearing various slogans.
demand sth, proclaim sth, read sth, say sth Banners demanded the president's resignation.
be strung across sth A banner strung across the road read, ‘Welcome home, boys!’ 
be engaged in, engage in She engages in friendly banter with her customers. 
from The curfew has effectively barred migrant workers from their jobs. 
be, go, pad, stand, walk The children had to go barefoot because there was no money for shoes. He padded barefoot across the carpet. 
hard He bargained hard and was stubborn.
about He was prepared to bargain about money.
with He tried to bargain with her. 
by ~ I travelled by barge.
in/on a/the ~ cruising the canals of France in a barge 
peel off, strip The people strip the bark and use it in medicines. 
peel off The bark peels off in summer. 
give The dog gave a loud bark. 
give He gave a harsh bark of laughter. 
malted/malting Malt whisky is made from malted barley.
cocaine, drug, oil the oil barons of Texas
be confined to He was confined to barracks for three weeks as a punishment.
fill They filled the barrels with cider 
a/per ~ The price of oil had fallen to $16 per barrel.
by the ~ Beer is sold by the barrel.
gun, rifle I felt the gun barrel at my head 
look down, peer/squint along She found herself looking down the barrel of a gun. Pulling his rifle to his shoulder he squinted along the barrel. 
form The protesters formed a human barricade.
smash, storm The army used tanks to storm the barricades.
man There were six miners manning the barricades. 
over a/the ~ The two sides watched each other over the barricades.
~ against Students built a barricade against the police.
for the barrister for the ferry company > Note at PROFESSIONAL(for verbs) 
broadly, loosely The novels are all loosely based on the author's life.
largely Their research was based largely on anecdotal evidence. 
on She got a bash on the head. 
give, throw They're throwing a big bash to celebrate their anniversary. 
cover The book covers the basics of massage.
concentrate on, stick to It's best to stick to basics when planning such a large party.
get/go back to, get down to It's time our education system got back to basics 
get the basics right The important thing is to get the basics right. 
bicycle She was cycling along with her bicycle basket full of shopping.
carry, heave, pick up She heaved the huge basket onto the table.
in/into a/the ~ The cat lay curled in its basket.
solid The bass clarinet forms a solid bass for the woodwind group.
ground The church organist may improvise on a ground bass.
sing He sings bass in our local choir.
turn down/up He always plays his stereo with the bass turned right up. 
sing Don has agreed to sing bass (= sing the bass part). 
in a … ~ He answered my question in a surprisingly deep bass. 
guitar > Special page at MUSIC 
whole A whole batch of original drawings will be on sale.
fresh, new He baked a fresh batch of rolls. Each summer a new batch of students tries to find work.
in the ~ How many books are there in each batch? We deliver the goods in batches.
scales I weigh myself on the bathroom scales every day.
emotionally She felt emotionally battered. 
battered old She wore a battered old robe. 
pitched The two armies fought a pitched battle on the plain.
do, give, go into, join Charles V refused to give battle. The two armies joined battle.
send sb into Many young men were sent into battle without proper training. 
at a/the ~ Napoleon was defeated at the Battle of Waterloo.
in (a/the) ~ He died in battle. 
against Police fought a pitched battle against demonstrators.
~ with Scores of people have been hurt in running battles with police. 
real There's now a real battle at the top of the First Division.
losing, uphill We seem to be fighting a losing battle.
be engaged in, do, fight Are you prepared to do battle with your insurance company over the claim?
a battle of ideas/words, a battle of wills/wits, a battle royal (= a major battle in which all available forces take part), fight your own battles My parents believed in leaving me to fight my own battles. 
across the ~ Lights twinkled across the bay. 
along a/the ~ He walked along the beach.
at a/the ~ They met at the beach.
on a/the ~ She lay on the beach and read her book. 
play He played the beam of his torch over the wall of the cave.
catch sb/sth in He was suddenly caught in the full beam of a searchlight. 
~ of A beam of sunlight shone in through the window. 
black-eyed, broad, butter, chilli, French, green, haricot, kidney, runner, soya, string
grow She grows her own broad beans.
soak If using dried beans, soak them overnight first. 
sprout > Special page at FOOD 
make sth The camaraderie among fellow employees made the tedious work just bearable.
find sth He found the dullness of his work scarcely bearable. 
for The money made life more bearable for her. 
direct, important, significant The rise in interest rates had a direct bearing on the company's profits. 
check He checked his bearings on the map in the car.
find, get Everything was in darkness and it was difficult to get my bearings.
keep To keep your bearings in a desert sandstorm is impossible.
lose She lost her bearings in the thick forest. 
take a (compass) bearing on sth Take a compass bearing on that mountain. 
clap to, dance to, sway to They danced to the rhythmic beat of the music. 
two, three, four, etc. beats to the bar The piece has four beats to the bar.
sb's heart misses/skips a beat (= sb feels very nervous) As I opened the letter, my heart missed a beat. 
pound, walk We have two officers walking the beat after midnight. 
get, receive, suffer, take The team took a terrible beating.
give sb/sth They caught him and gave him a violent beating. 
fade Her beauty faded as she got older. 
great She was known as a great beauty in her time.
absolute, real My new car's a real beauty!
little Isn't she a little beauty? 
share I used to share a bedroom with my brother.
convert They converted the spare bedroom into an office.
scene The actress refused to appear naked in the bedroom scenes. 
around a/the ~ There were dirty clothes strewn around the bedroom.
a 3-bedroom, etc. house The larger houses are four-bedroom houses. 
at ~, before sb's ~, past sb's ~ It's well past my normal bedtime. 
medium, rare, well done ‘How would you like your beef?’ ‘Rare, please.’
from He had to beg food from passers-by. 
almost, practically In the end they almost begged him to take the job.
humbly We humbly beg Your Majesty to show mercy.
silently Don't leave me, he begged her silently. 
for We went to him to beg for forgiveness.
of (formal) Do not do that, I beg of you. 
aggressively, badly, disgracefully, outrageously Children who behave badly are rejecting adult values.
appropriately, correctly, properly, responsibly The enquiry investigated whether officers had behaved correctly.
accordingly Children, if they are used to being treated with respect, will behave accordingly.
as if/though He behaved as if nothing out of the ordinary was happening.
like Stop behaving like a three-year-old!
towards He had always behaved in a friendly manner towards us. 
genuine, honest, sincere She was strict with her children in the genuine belief that it was the right thing to do.
persist Belief in the magical properties of this herb persisted down the centuries. 
beyond ~ (= too great, difficult, etc. to be believed) Dissatisfaction with the government has grown beyond belief. icy air that was cold beyond belief
in the ~ that She did it in the belief that it would basic, central, core, fundamental the basic beliefs of Christianityhelp her career.
personal, private I think the rights and wrongs of eating meat are a matter of personal belief.
erroneous, false, misguided, mistaken I took the job in the mistaken belief that I would be able to stay in London.
ancient, traditional The people still follow their traditional beliefs.
cultural, moral, political, religious, spiritual They were persecuted for their religious beliefs.
Catholic, Christian, pagan, etc. 
set, system Each religion has its set of beliefs. 
have, hold I have very firm beliefs about moral issues.
share He shared his father's belief that people should work hard for their living.
adhere to, cling to, follow, hold on to, stick to She clung to the belief that he would come back to her. The Labour Party must stick to its beliefs.
lose She has lost her belief in God.
affirm, assert, declare, express, state Here the apostle Peter affirms his belief that the scriptures are ‘inspired’.
encourage, foster, fuel The exam results encouraged the belief that he was a good teacher.
confirm, reinforce, strengthen, support This latest evidence strengthens our belief that the government is doing the right thing.
question, shake, shatter, undermine, weaken The child's death shook her belief in God.
respect You must respect other people's beliefs.
contrary to popular belief (= in spite of what people think) Contrary to popular belief, rainforests are not jungles through which you have to slash a path. 
firmly, really, seriously (only used with negatives), sincerely He firmly believed that he was right. No one seriously believes that this war will happen.
can't/cannot, could not I couldn't believe what I was hearing.
be hard to It's hard to believe that this campaign has been going on for ten years.
give sb to The boss gave me to believe that we would all get a pay rise.
have reason to We have reason to believe that the escaped prisoner may be hiding in this house.
be inclined to I'm inclined to believe you.
lead sb to The advertisement led us to believe that all prices had been cut. 
can/could hardly/scarcely believe sth, not believe a word of sth I didn't believe a word of what he said. 
wedding (often figurative) The two of them went everywhere together and their friends could already hear wedding bells (= were sure they would get married).
chime, clang, jangle, peal, ring (out), sound, tinkle, toll The bells on the harness tinkled softly. The church bells tolled for Evensong. 
a peal of bells She heard a peal of church bells.
a sound of bells The sound of bells echoed across the valley. 
alarm, warning (often figurative) Alarm bells were ringing inside Stuart's head. 
answer She hurried to answer the doorbell. 
go, ring, sound The school bell goes at three every afternoon. 
fat, pot Since he turned 30 he's started to develop a pot belly.
hang He's so fat, his belly hangs over his trousers.
in your ~ She felt the child in her belly kick. 
of She ran one of the little tea rooms so beloved of Londoners at the turn of the century. 
totally Sarah looked totally bemused.
a bit, faintly, a little, quite, rather, slightly, somewhat I was beginning to feel slightly bemused. 
by Connie was rather bemused by all the attention she was getting. 
hairpin, sharp, tight Some of the hairpin bends had Ruth clinging to her seat.
final (= in a race) He had a winning lead off the final bend. 
come round, negotiate, round, take, turn He slowed down to negotiate the bend. 
around/round a/the ~ The car vanished round a bend.
into a/the ~ I inched the car into the bend.
off a/the ~ He came off the bend in the lead.
on a/the ~ Slow down on the tight bends.
public He was a great public benefactor and gave land for building the sea wall. 
donate sth, give sth A private benefactor donated £20,000. 
to She was a generous benefactor to the library. 
considerable, enormous, great, major, real, substantial This could bring real benefits for teachers.
additional The scheme has many additional benefits.
fringe (= extra things that an employer gives as well as wages) The fringe benefits include free health insurance.
mutual The different environmental groups could work together to their mutual benefit.
enjoy, have The motor industry will be one of the first to enjoy the benefits of the recovery. children who have the benefit of a stable home background
derive, gain, get, obtain, reap, receive The company derived substantial benefit from the deal. I reaped the benefits of all my early training.
bring, offer, provide The new factory will bring considerable benefits to the area. This deal will offer major benefits to industrialists and investors. 
for sb's ~ We shall do this for the benefit of the patients.
of ~ to This arrangement will be of great benefit to you both.
to sb's ~ It will be to everyone's benefit.
~ to What are the benefits to investors? 
means-tested, universal One way to cut spending is to move from universal benefits?those paid to everyone regardless of need?to means-tested ones.
claim You may be able to claim housing benefit.
draw, get, receive He receives unemployment benefit.
lose She is worried that if she takes on a job she will lose her benefits.
cut The government has cut unemployment benefit.
be paid Benefit is paid monthly. 
on ~ He's on social security benefit. 
fairly, rather, relatively The effects of this chemical are fairly benign.
environmentally We are looking for an environmentally benign alternative to bleach. 
have She has an artistic bent.
show He showed a literary bent from a young age. 
have, produce Does this bush have berries?
pick We picked a few of the berries.
drop off > Special page at FRUIT 
consider sth, deem sth, judge sth, think sth Owen judged it best to make no reply. 
very We aim to give our guests the very best attention.
by far, easily This is by far the best restaurant in the town. 
at Who in the class is best at maths?
for I'm only trying to do what's best for you. 
final, ultimate His defection to the other side was the ultimate betrayal. 
regard sth as, see sth as, view sth as The business community regarded the measures as a betrayal of election promises. 
of a betrayal of his friends The decisions were a betrayal of everything my father stood for. 
leave sb She packed her bags and left?leaving Matthew bewildered and confused. 
at He was rather bewildered at seeing her there.
by She was totally bewildered by his message. 
have The newspaper has a clear bias towards the Conservative Party.
correct We have now tried to correct the bias in our original report.
be free from The newspaper was free from political bias. 
creep in, exist Bias often creeps in through the wording of questions. 
with/without ~ All material must be selected and presented without bias.
say sth, tell sb sth, teach sth The Bible teaches that all people are equal before God. 
in the ~ You can read the story of Noah in the Bible. 
get on, mount He mounted his bicycle and rode off.
come off, fall off She came off her bicycle when it skidded on some wet leaves.
pedal She pedalled her bicycle up the track.
push, wheel I dismounted and began to push my bicycle up the hill.
by ~ Did you come by bicycle?
against Two dealers bid against each other for the antique table.
for She bid £10,000 for the painting. 
for We have successfully bid for the contract. 
get on He got on his bike and rode off.
come off, fall off She came off her bike when it skidded on some wet leaves.
pedal She pedalled her bike up the track.
push, wheel We had to push our bikes up the hill.
by ~ Did you come by bike?
in He is virtually bilingual in Spanish and Portuguese. 
litter, rubbish, waste, wastepaper She threw the letter in the wastepaper bin.
in a/the ~ Put the wrapper in the bin. 
tightly They bound his hands together tightly. 
to, with The sails are bound to the mast with cord. 
bind and gag sb, bind sb hand and foot She found herself bound hand and foot. 
go on, have He went on a drunken binge when he heard the bad news. 
brief, potted The book gives potted biographies of all the major painters. 
by a biography by Antonia Fraser
modern > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
last, next I'll be 28 next birthday. 
have I hope you have a nice birthday.
spend She spent her 50th birthday in Paris.
approach He is approaching his 40th birthday, and thinking of retiring from sport. 
surprise He had a portrait painted as a birthday surprise for his daughter.
treat We're taking him to see the new film for his birthday treat. 
for your ~ What do you want for your birthday?
on your ~ She'll be 34 on her next birthday. 
appy birthday!, wish sb a happy birthday Wish John a happy birthday from me. 
cut out He was cutting biscuits out and putting them on a baking tray. 
crumbs He brushed the biscuit crumbs from his jacket. 
cheese and biscuits > Special page at FOOD 
little, teensy (informal), wee He helped me a little bit in the afternoon. 
just a bit I'm still just a bit confused. 
fair, good It rained a fair bit during the night. We made a good bit of progress. 
take The new system will take quite a bit of getting used to (= it will take a long time to get used to). 
quite a bit It rained quite a bit during the night.
just a bit (ironic) ‘Has it been difficult for you at work?’ ‘Just a bit (= it has been very difficult).’ 
big, large A big bit of stone had fallen off the wall.
good, nice The best bit of the holiday was seeing the Grand Canyon. I've got us a nice bit of fish for dinner.
boring I read it, but I missed out the boring bits.
odd He managed to get odd bits of work, but no regular job. 
pick out, pick up Listen to the interview again and pick out the bits you want to use in the article. She tore the letter up and threw it on the floor. Marion stooped to pick up the bits. I picked up a bit of information that might interest you. 
fall off I'm worried because bits keep falling off my car. 
bits and bobs/pieces (= small items of various kinds) My mother has some bits and pieces to give you.
blow/pull/smash sth to bits All the crockery had been smashed to bits.
do your bit (= do your share of a task) We can finish this job on time if everyone does their bit.
fall to bits My briefcase eventually fell to bits. 
badly Their cat was badly bitten by a dog.
off He bit off a chunk of bread. 
at He bit at his lower lip.
into She bit into the apple.
through The dog had bitten right through its rope. 
deep, hard As the recession bites harder, many small companies are going bankrupt. 
begin to, start to After two cold months, the coal shortage was beginning to bite. 
feel She feels no bitterness towards him.
show He's never shown any bitterness. 
with/without ~ She spoke slowly and with some bitterness.
~ between There is no bitterness between them. 
on the ~ You could buy anything you needed on the black market.
~ in During the war, there was a thriving black market in food. 
copy from Please copy the homework from the blackboard.
at a/the ~ You can't just stand at the blackboard and talk.
on a/the ~ The homework is on the blackboard. 
threat > Note at CRIME(for verbs) 
cancer, infection, problem He died of bladder cancer. 
get My brother broke the window, but I got the blame.
accept, bear, shoulder, take The company refused to accept any blame for the damage.
apportion, attach, attribute, lay, pin, place, put They placed the blame squarely on the doctor.
share The government must share the blame for this confusion.
absolve sb from/of He was absolved of all blame. 
fall on sb, lie with sb, rest with sb The blame lies with the police, who failed to act quickly enough. 
for He tried to escape blame for what he did. 
lay the blame at sb's door, part of the blame, a share of the blame The government tried to lay the blame at the door of the unions. 
quite (= totally) She herself was quite blameless.
far from, not entirely Johnson himself was far from blameless. 
fill in In the test, we had to fill in the blanks.
leave If you don't know the answer, just leave a blank. 
fire Soldiers fired blanks into the sky. 
declare sth, deem sth The book was declared blasphemous and all copies ordered to be burnt. 
hit sth, rip through sth, rock sth A huge bomb blast rocked central London last night. 
in a/the ~ Twenty people were killed in the blast. 
hot, icy She felt an icy blast of air. 
on He gave a short blast on his trumpet. 
extremely, very Prospects for the industry are extremely bleak.
unnecessarily The report paints an unnecessarily bleak picture of the town. 
be, look, seem The moors looked bleak and desolate in the rain.
a bit, rather It was a rather bleak and dismal place. 
from Some drugs can cause bleeding from the small intestine. 
for A TV can be a real blessing for old people. 
give sb/sth The government has given its official blessing to the project.
get, receive She received the full blessing of her employers. 
with/without sb's ~ He went off to Latin America with his mother's blessing. 
give, make, pronounce, say The blessing was said in Hebrew.
on ask God's blessing on their pastoral work 
through a/the ~ She saw a shadowy figure through the blind. 
hard He blinked hard and forced a smile.
at She blinked at him, astonished.
in/with He blinked in surprise. 
blink away a tear, blink back tears She had to blink back her tears before she continued her story.
badly Her feet were badly blistered. 
blow After a short while it began to blow a blizzard. 
hit (sth), strike (sth) The blizzard struck while we were still on the mountain.
in/into ~ We got stuck in a howling blizzard.
through ~ He fought his way through the blizzard. 
administration, apartment, cell, office The prisoners had been transferred to a different cell block. 
in a/the ~ She lives in a modern apartment block.
mental, writer's The author denies that she is experiencing writer's block. 
experience, have, suffer from I suddenly had a mental block and couldn't remember his name. 
break, get through, run They attempted to break the blockade by using submarines. 
~ by the blockade by Western nations
~ of, ~ on The president imposed a complete blockade on the island's harbours. 
average, ordinary He's an ordinary bloke, despite being famous.
funny He's a funny bloke?you never really know what he's thinking.
poor He's got so many problems, poor bloke! 
the kind/sort/type of bloke He's the sort of bloke who will never let you down. 
burst He burst a blood vessel in a fit of coughing. 
cause, end in, lead to This election result could well lead to further bloodshed.
burst into, come into The spring flowers have come into bloom. 
appear The small white blooms appear in May.
fade The blooms have started to fade now. 
in full bloom The roses are now in full bloom. 
off The wind blew the papers off the table. 
be blowing a gale It's blowing a gale out there!
blow sth off course The ship was blown off course in the storm. 
on He blew on his soup to cool it. 
have The government does not have a blueprint for reform.
act as, form, provide, serve as The charter should serve as a blueprint for cooperation. 
commit, make The minister has made a series of political blunders. 
produce His jokes produced blushes from the ladies.
hide She tried to hide her fiery blush. 
creep, rise, spread A deep blush spread from her head to her neck. 
with/without a ~ She lowered her eyes with a deep blush.
on a/the ~ There's a notice on the board. 
be on, serve on, sit on He sits on the company's management board.
go to The project will go to the board for consideration.
put sth to, submit sth to, take sth to She put her ideas to the board. 
at board level The issue has been discussed at board level.
chairman of the board, a member of the board, a seat on the board She was promoted and offered a seat on the board. 
~ of her boast of having seen all the countries of Africa 
heave, lunge, lurch, pitch, rock, roll The boat pitched violently from side to side.
fill The boat slowly filled with icy water.
operate, ply Ferry boats ply regularly between all the resorts on the lake.
train (= the train scheduled to connect with a particular sailing) the 7.30 p.m. boat train to Harwich
by ~ The cave can only be reached by boat.
in a/the ~ I took them in my boat.
on a/the ~ They ate on the boat.
~ from, ~ to a boat from Jamaica to Trinidad 
open He was adrift in an open boat for three days.
canal, narrow, river We spent our holiday going up a canal on a narrow boat. a Mississippi river boat
stricken The lifeboat was preparing to go to the aid of the stricken boat.
take out You couldn't take a boat out in that wild sea.
take sb out in My brother took us all out in his new boat.
launch, lower A new type of patrol boat was launched from the Essex coast yesterday.
push out I pushed the boat out into the middle of the river.
propel, row, sail The boat is propelled by a powerful outboard motor.
handle Where did you learn to handle a boat?
crew Normally the boat is crewed by five people.
beach He beached the boat and the children leapt out to explore.
anchor, berth The harbour was crowded, with boats berthed two and three abreast.
rock Sit down, you're rocking the boat. 
whole Her whole body trembled.
in the/your ~ Extreme heat may cause changes in the body.
on the/your ~ She still had the marks from the ropes on her body. 
on a/the ~ A diary was found on the body. 
a body of water The two islands are separated by a large body of water. 
main The bar is in the main body of the hotel. 
politic (always after body) Freedom of speech is necessary 
in a ~ The students marched in a body to the government offices. > Note at ORGANIZATION 
foreign They removed a foreign body from her eye.
celestial, heavenly Stars are celestial bodies. 
sink into The more she struggled the deeper she sank into the bog. 
in a/the ~ He found himself in a vast stagnant bog.
come to Just before the milk comes to the boil, turn down the heat.
bring sth to Bring the soup to the boil, then simmer for five minutes.
go off (usually figurative) He played brilliantly for the first set but then went rather off the boil. 
burst, lance The doctor lanced the boil. 
erupt A boil had erupted on his neck.
come on I've just heard the hot water boiler come on.
make sb The exciting news had made him bold.
firmly, securely Make sure that the rails are securely bolted in place.
together The two parts are bolted together. 
to The yacht's keel is bolted to the hull. 
heavily The city had been very heavily bombed. 
survive, withstand They have withstood heavy bombardment for many months. 
during/in a/the ~ Many people were killed in the bombardment.
under ~ The city has been under constant bombardment for three days.
~ against The army launched artillery bombardments against enemy positions.
be, come as The news came as a bombshell.
drop Then she dropped the bombshell?she was pregnant. 
brittle, fragile She was diagnosed as having brittle bones.
bleached, dry Her eyes were black in a face the colour of bleached bones.
rest He longed to get home to bed and rest his weary bones. 
structure The black and white photographs emphasized her fine bone structure.
break/jar) every bone in sb's body The shock jarred every bone in his body.
skin and bone He's all skin and bone after his illness. 
go I went a bit bonkers when he told me the news.
drive sb The noise nearly drove me bonkers. 
absolutely, completely, plain, stark raving, totally I think he's absolutely stark raving bonkers! The whole idea is just plain bonkers.
be greeted/met with His speech was met with boos. 
from There were loud boos from the audience. 
early, in advance There are few places on the course, so it is essential to book in advance. 
with Book with Suntours and kids go free! 
make I made the booking through a travel agent.
accept, take We accept both telephone and postal bookings. 
for a booking for the Saturday performance 
cause, create, fuel, lead to The boom was fuelled by accelerated demand for consumer products. 
during/in a/the ~ He was born during the post-war baby boom.
sonic (= the explosive sound made when an aircraft flies faster than the speed of sound) We heard the sonic boom of a jet overhead. 
echo The deep boom of a foghorn echoed across the bay. 
for a boost for British products
gum, rubber, Wellington
as tough as old boots The meat was as tough as old boots.
the toe of sb's boot She kicked at the snow with the toe of her boot. > Special page at CLOTHES 
divide, share, split They divided the booty among the troops. 
common Poland has a common border with Germany.
cross, drive across/over, slip across/over They slipped across the border at nightfall.
form, mark A river forms the border.
along a/the ~ There has been fighting along the border.
at/on a/the ~ We were stopped on the border.
on the ~ of a farm on the border of Oxfordshire and Buckinghamshire
up to the ~ He drove us right up to the Russian border.
~ between/of the border between Austria and Switzerland
~ with the border with Mexico 
north/south of the border, one side/both sides of the border There has been fighting on both sides of the border. 
have The tablecloth has a narrow lace border.
~ around/round She drew a decorative border around the picture. 
awful, crashing, dreadful, real, terrible, utter Her husband is a crashing bore. 
awful, great, real, terrible It's an awful bore having to meet my aunt for lunch. 
become, get, grow Some children get bored very quickly.
by He seemed faintly bored by the whole process.
with He was bored with their conversation. 
bored out of your (tiny) mind He walked along, bored out of his mind.
bored rigid/silly/stiff I remember being bored stiff during my entire time at school.
bored to death/distraction/tears She was alone all day and bored to death. 
make sth Try not to make the diet boring.
consider sb/sth, find sb/sth, think sb/sth She found her job boring. 
awfully, dead, extremely, incredibly, really, terribly, very That film was dead boring.
for The game was boring for the spectators. 
boring old Green is much better than boring old white. 
throughout a/the ~ There are factories scattered throughout the borough.
~ of the London borough of Lambeth 
heave, rise and fall Her bosom rose and fell; she was out of breath from keeping up with him. 
clutch sb/sth to your bosom (literary) She clutched her son tightly to her bosom. 
have I had a little bother finding your house.
cause, give sb Your little boy didn't give me any bother.
go to I wouldn't go to the bother of making the cakes myself.
put sb to I'd love to come and stay with you, but I don't want to put you to any bother.
save sb Getting a taxi will save you the bother of picking me up from the station. 
a bit/a little/a lot/a spot of bother He's in a spot of bother with the police.
no bother The children were no bother. 
without any ~ We found the hotel without any bother.
~ to I don't mind looking after your dog?it's no bother to me.
~ with He's got a spot of bother with his eyes. 
fill She filled the bottle with water.
break/crack open (only used about alcoholic drinks), open, uncork Let's crack open a bottle of champagne to celebrate.
drink, have, wash sth down with We washed the stew down with a bottle of cheap red wine.
over a/the ~ We discussed the problem over a bottle of wine.
along, down, up, etc. a/the ~ They sauntered along the tree-lined boulevard. 
almost These problems were almost bound to arise. 
hold sb The president said the country could not be held bound by a treaty signed by the previous regime. 
by law, contractually, legally Officials are bound by law to investigate any possible fraud. He was legally bound to report them to the authorities.
(in) honour, in duty (also duty-bound), morally I felt in duty bound to report the incident. 
by We are legally bound by this decision. 
for tourists who are bound for Europe 
together A person's name and their sense of their own identity are often closely bound up together. 
with From that moment my life became inextricably bound up with hers. 
in a/the ~ Are there any roses in your bouquet?
~ of He sent her a large bouquet of wild flowers. 
deeply, low He swept off his hat and bowed deeply to the Queen.
before The Emperor's subjects bowed down before him.
to The pianist stood up and bowed to the audience. 
food, fruit, porridge, pudding, punch (also punchbowl), salad, soup, sugar, water I refilled the dog's water bowl.
finger I put down the chicken bone and rinsed my fingers in the finger bowl.
begging (figurative) The school is always having to get out the begging bowl for books and basic equipment.
fill, pour (sb), pour sth into He poured himself a bowl of soup.
contain sth, hold sth a bowl containing flour This bowl holds about four pints.
overflow The washing-up bowl was overflowing. 
from a/the ~ I helped myself to an apple from the bowl.
out of a/the ~ The boy was drinking milk out of a bowl.
in/into a/the ~ Mix the ingredients in a deep bowl. Sieve the flour into a bowl.
receipts, takings Box office receipts for the film have hit $50 million. 
at a/the ~ Tickets are available at the box office. 
do well/badly at the box office The musical has done very well at the box office (= a lot of tickets have been sold). 
amateur, professional, unlicensed Unlicensed boxing can be very dangerous.
kick, Thai
shadow (also shadow-boxing) (= boxing with an imaginary opponent) (figurative) The two candidates engaged in shadow-boxing before the election. 
do He does boxing in his spare time. 
circles He is highly respected in boxing circles. > Special page at SPORT 
consumer, economic, trade a consumer boycott of GM foods 
declare, impose, introduce Opposition groups declared a boycott of the elections.
call for, threaten Lawyers threatened a boycott of the courts.
end, lift Politicians want to end their boycott of the talks.
join There is pressure on the biggest union to join the boycott. 
~ of The group is calling for a mass consumer boycott of these products.
~ on The US has imposed a boycott on some European goods. 
jilted She was stalked by a jilted ex-boyfriend. 
string, succession She had a string of wealthy boyfriends before she finally married. 
have Have you got a boyfriend?
trouble She's unhappy because she's been having boyfriend trouble. 
have, wear I used to wear a brace. 
hold sth up, support sth The braces held up his trousers. > Special page at CLOTHES 
left, right The left brain controls the right-hand side of the body. 
in the/your ~ Doctors tried to reduce the swelling in his brain.
on the/your ~ He was found to have a blood clot on his brain. (figurative) He's got football on the brain (= thinks about nothing but football). 
blow your brains out While cleaning his shotgun he had accidentally blown his own brains out. 
muddled, tired My tired brain couldn't cope with such a complex problem.
rack We racked our brains but we couldn't come up with a solution.
pick sb's (= ask sb for information because they know more about a subject than you) I need to pick your brains: what can you tell me about credit unions?
take It doesn't take much brain to work out that both stories can't be true. 
function, tick over, work It's important to keep your brain ticking over.
reel His brain reeled as he realized the implication of his dismissal.
register sth The stopping distance includes the time taken for the brain to register the need to stop. 
brains and brawn/brains and not brawn, etc. They relied on brains rather than brawn (= intelligence, not strength).
have a brain for sth She has a 
brake to a halt The train braked to a shuddering halt.
brake to avoid sth She braked suddenly to avoid a cat. 
own (= goods marked with the name of a particular shop instead of that of the manufacturer) Supermarkets make a lot of profit on their own brand products. 
identity, image, name The company owes its success to brand image.
particular, special, unique His designs have a unique brand of stylishness.
in ~ The door knocker was a female figure in brass. 
section the brass section of the orchestra > Special page at MUSIC 
make sb The whisky had made me brave. 
in a/the ~ They got caught up in a street brawl.
hard, mouldy, soggy, stale This bread is going stale.
French, Italian, etc. 
chunk, crumb, crust, hunk, morsel, piece, slice She tore off a large hunk of bread. 
on the ~ What would you like on your bread? 
bread and cheese/jam, bread and water He had to live on bread and water for two weeks.
bread and wine (= the food given to Christians during the Communion service) People started going up to receive the bread and wine. > Special page at FOOD 
Christmas, Easter Are you going away for the Easter break? 
have, take We'll take a break now and resume in half an hour.
at ~ I'll see you at break.
during (a/the) ~ I had a word with John during the break.
without a ~ We worked all day without a break.
make His new work makes a break with the past. I wanted to leave but was nervous about making the break. 
get I always knew I would get my lucky break one day.
give sb He's the director who gave her her first big break. 
organization, service The national breakdown organizations are on hand to help motorists 24 hours a day.
complete, irretrievable The only ground for divorce is the irretrievable breakdown of the marriage.
prepare I have prepared a detailed cost breakdown for the project.
by, ~ of Please provide us with a breakdown of expenditure by department. 
factory, house, etc. BREAK-IN + NOUN happen, take place 
hard, heavily They were both breathing hard from the steep climb.
easily, steadily She was beginning to breathe more easily.
normally, properly I can't breathe properly?I'm gasping for air!
raggedly He was breathing raggedly, mouth open.
in, out She breathed slowly in and out. 
not dare He hardly dared breathe in case they heard him. 
through Always breathe through your nose. 
huskily, softly ‘I love you, ’ she breathed softly. 
hoarse, laboured, uneven His breathing was laboured, and he could hardly speak.
heavy She picked up the phone and heard sounds of heavy breathing. 
exercise Try breathing exercises to calm your nerves. 
from She's a lovely cat. Will you breed from her? 
blow, come, drift A light breeze came off the sea.
ruffle sth, rustle sth, stir sth A sudden breeze rustled the long dry grass.
come up A breeze came up in the late afternoon.
in a/the ~ The curtains fluttered in the night breeze. 
give sb, offer (sb), pay sb He admitted paying bribes to police officers.
in ~s He paid out millions of dollars in bribes.
works He got a job at the local brick works. 
brick by brick They moved the whole house, brick by brick.
a course of bricks They put an extra course of bricks round the pool. 
receive the guests The bride and bridegroom received their guests in the great hall. 
Bailey, cantilever, pontoon, suspension
wash away Floods washed away several bridges.
cross Cross the bridge and turn right into the town. 
cross sth, span sth The new bridge will cross the Thames at this point.
under a/the ~ The road goes under the old railway bridge.
game, rubber I enjoy a game of bridge occasionally. 
in a/the ~ She makes all these points in her brief.
outside sb's ~ How the new policy is to be implemented is outside his brief.
be part of sb's brief It's not part of my brief to advise on financial matters. 
battered He wore a torn suit and carried a battered briefcase.
form A special army brigade is to be formed.
in a/the ~ units in 1st Commando Brigade
be, look, seem The factory's future now looks quite bright.
fairly, pretty, quite, reasonably The morning was quite bright, but it clouded over in the afternoon.
unnaturally Her eyes were unnaturally bright. 
flash There were flashes of brilliance from several of the players. 
with ~ He played with great brilliance. 
be filled/full to the brim, fill sth to the brim She filled the bowl to the brim. 
beneath/under a/the ~ She watched the crowd from beneath the brim of her hat. 
be (poised) on, hover on, stand on, teeter on Scientists are on the brink of making a major new discovery. animals hovering on the very brink of extinction
bring/pull sb/sth back from He pulled the company back from the brink (= saved it from disaster). 
give, make The president gave a radio broadcast to mark the end of the war.
in a/the ~ More details will be given in our news broadcast.
commercial Existing commercial broadcasters claim the new stations are illegal.
public service The country needs a national public service broadcaster like the BBC.
go (= go bankrupt) The company went broke last year. 
completely, flat (informal), stony (informal) I'm stony broke at the moment.
credit, insurance, mortgage Ask advice from an insurance broker.
~ for a broker for the company > Note at JOB 
be cast in, be made from/in/(out) of The figure was cast in bronze. 
in ~ She works mainly in bronze. 
get, take, win She got a bronze in the long jump. 
big, elder, older Bill idolizes his big brother, who is a professional footballer.
beloved, much-loved She wrote daily to her beloved brother, Leo.
long-lost His old teacher greeted him like a long-lost brother.
dead, deceased, late He married the wife of his late brother.
blood brothers (= close friends who have sworn to remain friends for life), brother and sister Have you got any brothers and sisters?
like brothers The boys are so close, they're like brothers. 
very He looked very brown after his holiday.
uniformly The once-green fields were now uniformly brown. 
chestnut, chocolate, golden, reddish, rusty > Special page at COLOUR 
suffer She suffered only minor cuts and bruises. 
form A bruise had formed below his left eye.
fine, soft, stiff Scrub the wood thoroughly with water and a stiff brush.
apply sth with Apply the paint with a clean brush.
stroke The artist has used tiny brush strokes. 
with a/the ~ Remove all the rust with a wire brush. 
police There have been many complaints of police brutality. 
act This was an act of extreme brutality. 
furiously The water in the saucepan was bubbling furiously.
away, up The soup was bubbling away on the stove. 
to the surface Emotions quickly bubble to the surface.
over, up He was bubbling over with excitement. 
inside She could feel the anger bubbling up inside her.
with The business was still small but I was bubbling with ideas. 
undo, unfasten > Special page at CLOTHES 
en She became interested in Zen Buddhism. > Note at RELIGION(for verbs and phrases) 
from He refuses to budge from his principles.
on The union won't budge on its demand. 
not budge an inch He threw all his weight against the door, but it wouldn't budge an inch. 
carefully, sensibly If we budget carefully we should be able to afford a holiday this year. 
for We have budgeted £10,000 for advertising. 
running The running buffet is available from 6 p.m. to 2 a.m.
serve A finger buffet will be served.
lay out A buffet was laid out for the conference delegates. 
style Breakfast is served buffet style. 
local We got a local builder to do the work for us. 
builder's merchant, builder's yard The house looked like a builder's yard, with stacks of bricks and piles of sand in the garden. > Note at JOB 
massive VERB + BUILD-UP cause, lead to The leak led to a slow build-up of carbon dioxide.
to Tension is mounting in the build-up to the elections. 
considerable, formidable, huge, massive, sheer I was amazed by the sheer bulk of the creature.
ease, heave, shift (used about people) He heaved his considerable bulk into the chair. 
in ~ Sugar is imported in bulk from the mainland. 
the bulk of (= most of) The great bulk of the work has now been done.
buy in bulk It's usually cheaper to buy in bulk. 
issue, put out, release The government will issue an official bulletin later this week. 
in a/the ~ More details will be given in our next news bulletin.
in a/the ~ The details are in the June bulletin. 
feel, pinch A man pinched her bum on the train so she hit him.
sit on They've been sitting on their bums all day, doing nothing. 
beach He dropped out of college and became a beach bum. 
against I ran after her, bumping against people in my rush.
into I bumped into the corner of a table as I left.
on I bumped my head on the door frame. 
bake, make > Special page at FOOD 
pull/draw your hair back in(to) a bun Her black hair was drawn back into a neat bun.
tie sth (up) in, wrap sth (up) in He tied his belongings up in a bundle and left. 
in a/the ~ The papers are in a bundle on my desk.
bear, carry The manager carries the greatest burden of responsibility.
assume, shoulder, take on She had to shoulder the burden of childcare.
impose, place His illness placed an intolerable burden on his family.
lift, remove The administrative burden must be lifted from local government.
share I need to share my burden with someone. 
fall on sb/sth The economic burden falls mainly on businesses. 
~ to She felt she was a burden to her parents. 
the burden of proof (law) (= the responsibility of proving that sth is true) The burden of proof falls on the prosecution: the accused is presumed innocent until proved guilty.
have a burden on your shoulders He has the burden of a large family on his shoulders.
carry The women carried their burdens on their backs.
cut out, eliminate, reduce The organization has promised to eliminate cumbersome and unnecessary bureaucracy.
extremely, highly, very The organization is highly bureaucratic.
at Audio equipment was stolen in a burglary at a house in Main Road. > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
etc. per cent burns He was treated in hospital for 60 per cent burns. 
away, down He switched off the bedside lamp and burrowed down beneath the bedclothes. 
beneath/under Rabbits had burrowed under the fence.
into Earthworms burrow deep into the subsoil.
burrow your way Ivy had burrowed its way through the walls. 
in ~s He works in short bursts.
be dead and buried Those people are now all dead and buried. (figurative) Their ambitions were finally dead and buried.
underground The waste is buried deep underground. 
be buried alive The miners were buried alive when the tunnel collapsed.
be/get buried beneath/under sth The building was now buried under three metres of soil. Your letter got buried under a pile of papers. 
deep/deeply He slumped forward, the knife buried deep in his chest. (figurative) her deeply buried pain 
lie/remain buried (often figurative) The king is dead and lies buried at Jedburgh Abbey. What secrets lie buried in the past? 
among/in the ~es She was hiding in the bushes at the side of the lane. 
keep sth I'd rather keep the relationship strictly businesslike. 
keep, remain She needed to keep busy.
keep sb I've got enough work to keep you busy. 
with She was busy with her make-up. 
melted Brush the pastry with a little melted butter.
knob, pat, slab He put a large knob of butter on the potatoes. 
put on, spread (sth with) Put some butter on the crackers, please. He spread butter on the roll.
beat (in), cream, mix, rub in Cream the butter and icing sugar together until light and fluffy. Rub the butter into the flour.
spread This butter doesn't spread very well.
melt The butter melted in the heat. 
bread and butter > Special page at FOOD 
emerge The butterfly emerged from the pupa. 
bottom, top The top button of his shirt was undone.
lose My coat has lost a button.
be missing, come off, pop (off) There was a button missing from his shirt. > Special page at CLOTHES 
alarm, panic She hit the alarm button as fast as she could.
click (on) (computing), depress, hit, hold down, press, push Click the left mouse button twice.
at the touch of a button The remote control allows you to change channel at the touch of a button. > Special page at COMPUTER 
first-time The houses are small and inexpensive, ideal for first-time buyers. 
find, get They quickly found a buyer for their house.
for Have you got a buyer for your house yet? 
buyer beware In matters of second-hand cars, your motto should be ‘buyer beware’ (= the buyer is responsible for checking the quality of the goods).
a buyer's market In a buyer's market, the commodity is plentiful and so its price is not high. 
press, sound Press the buzzer when you want to talk. 
go (off), sound The buzzer went off at eight o'clock. 
black, yellow London black cab drivers
go by, take Let's take a cab.
call (sb), get (sb), order (sb), phone for I'll call you a cab.
find We couldn't find a cab anywhere near.
catch, hail I tried to hail a cab but none of them would stop.
share We decided to share a cab. 
draw up, pull up The cab pulled up and they got out.
pick sb up, take sb I ordered a cab to take him home. 
by ~ I came by cab.
in a/the ~ The driver was sitting in his cab. 
the back of a cab I left my umbrella in the back of the cab. 
full There was a meeting of the full Cabinet this afternoon.
inner The inner Cabinet is to meet again today.
reshuffle The prime minister reshuffled (= changed) his Cabinet yesterday.
force The defeat in the vote forced the Cabinet to change its policy on immigration.
reshuffle The affair led to a mid-term Cabinet reshuffle (= when the prime minister/president changes some of the people in the Cabinet). 
in a/the ~ Past reports are kept in the filing cabinet in my office. 
give, let out The old woman gave a cackle of laughter.
officer The military academy trains up to 2,000 officer cadets each year. 
birthday, Christmas, wedding I blew out the candles on my birthday cake. 
bit, piece, slice He cut her a slice of cake. 
decorate, ice, spread with sth Spread the cake with the butter cream.
cut Everyone cheered as the bride and groom cut the wedding cake. 
crumbs She brushed some cake crumbs off her lap.
mix, mixture a packet of cake mix Pour the cake mixture into a greased and lined tin.
shop, stall, stand > Special page at FOOD 
coldly, coolly She caught a coolly calculating glint in the other woman's eye. 
cold and calculating He has a cold and calculating mind. 
advanced Exam candidates are not allowed to use advanced calculators with database capability. 
produce A dairy cow needs to produce a calf each year.
rear These calves are reared for beef.
graze The calves are grazed intensively during their first season. 
in/with ~ Their prize cow is in calf (= pregnant). 
variously a plant variously called ‘cow parsley’ and ‘Queen Anne's lace’
euphemistically The prison is euphemistically called a ‘rehabilitation centre’. 
by We usually call him by his nickname. 
apparent Under his apparent calm lay real anxiety.
forced, studied With a forced calm she said, ‘How do you know?’
dead She felt not fear, but a kind of dead calm.
deadly, icy ‘I'm calling the police, ’ he stated with deadly calm. 
appeal for, call for The government appealed for calm after the riots broke out. 
descend, settle After the bomb, an uneasy calm settled on the city. 
dead, flat Seals basked on boulders in a flat calm. 
automatic, box, cine, closed-circuit, digital, electronic, infra-red, microfilm, movie, pinhole, polaroid, SLR, television/TV, underwater, video
focus, point Simply point your camera at the subject and press the button.
pose for The royal couple posed for the cameras.
brave, face He couldn't bring himself to face the cameras and left by a back exit.
mount The film was taken by a camera mounted on a hang-glider.
install Closed-circuit cameras have been installed throughout the building.
set up The crews have been setting up their cameras.
catch sth The camera has caught the expression on the Queen's face beautifully.
roll The director gave the signal and the cameras rolled.
click She stepped onto the balcony and a thousand cameras clicked. 
in front of the ~s He played his first match at Everton in front of the TV cameras.
off ~ The incident occurred off camera (= was not filmed).
on ~ The moment was caught on camera. 
with They camouflaged their truck with fallen pine branches. 
be carefully/heavily/well camouflaged The vehicles were all well camouflaged. 
one-man/one-woman, personal She has fought a one-woman campaign for ten years about the lack of childcare provision in the town.
media, poster, press, television/TV
dirty tricks, smear, whispering Her political opponenta ran a whispering campaign against her. 
launch, mount, start The company launched a huge advertising campaign.
conduct, fight, organize, run, wage People have criticized the way in which she conducted her election campaign.
lead, manage, spearhead She led a successful campaign against the closure of the library.
intensify, step up The government has intensified the military campaign against the rebels. 
begin, get underway, start The general election campaign gets underway today.
aim to The campaign aims to inform the public of the dangers of this disease.
fail to The campaign failed to achieve its objectives. 
issue Education has become an important campaign issue.
during a/the ~ They met regularly during the campaign.
~ by the political campaign by the Labour Party
a plan of campaign After sliding in the opinion polls, the party had to 
food The floor was littered with rusty food cans.
come in This special type of milk comes in a can.
open We opened a can of sardines for lunch.
drain, empty She drained her can of beer and threw it away. He emptied a can of beans into the pan.
fill He was filling a jerry can with petrol from the pump.
outright They opted for rescheduling rather than outright cancellation. 
have We may be able to offer you some tickets if we have any cancellations.
make Cancellations must be made in writing.
cause Heavy seas can cause cancellation of ferry services. 
about He was quite candid about the way the case had been handled.
with I felt she was being less than candid with me. 
water Riot police used water cannon and tear gas to disperse the crowd. 
boom, roar, thunder Cannons thundered to their right.
fire (sth) As the king stepped ashore the cannons fired a salute. 
fodder (figurative) The foot soldiers were just used as cannon fodder (= considered not as people but as material to be used up in war). 
form The trees formed a leafy canopy above their heads. 
limited The company's manufacturing capability is quite limited.
have She has the capability to become a very fine actress.
increase The government wants to increase its military capability.
beyond your ~ Organizing a whole department is beyond his capability.
within your ~ I'm sure that your new job is well within your capabilities.
earning The qualification should increase my earning capacity.
be filled/packed to The theatre was filled to capacity (= was full) for every performance.
innate, natural Children have an innate capacity to understand language.
lose She seems to have lost the capacity to enjoy herself.
beyond your ~ This maths is beyond the capacity of most school children.
within your ~ The mountain walk is well within the capacity of most fit people.
act in, work in I have worked in an advisory capacity with many hospitals. 
in your ~ In my capacity as president, I would like to thank Jack for his hard work. 
free, release The terrorists will only release their captives if they get what they want. 
avoid, escape, evade The refugees evaded capture by hiding in the forest.
lead to This information led to the capture of the murderer. 
private The government wants more people to use public transport instead of private cars.
armoured, Panda, patrol, police, squad, unmarked Police in an unmarked car had been following the stolen vehicle for several minutes.
getaway The robbers abandoned their getaway car in Sealand Road.
parked There was a line of parked cars in front of the building. 
have, own, run It's very expensive to run a car these days.
take It's too far to walk. I'll take the car.
get in/into, pile into He got in the car and they drove off. The kids all piled into the car.
get out You lock up the house and I'll get the car out.
lose control of I lost control of the car and it spun off the road.
take in I've got to take the car in for service.
start Despite the cold, the car started first time.
do sth The car does 55 miles per gallon. The car was doing over 100 miles an hour.
pull out, turn out What cheek! That car pulled out right in front of me!
skid, spin Her car skidded on a patch of ice.
collide with sth, crash, hit sth, leave the road His car hit a van coming in the opposite direction. 
park, parking There's not enough car parking in the town centre.
by ~ They take the children to school by car.
in a/the ~ I'll wait for you in the car. 
cars on the roads The number of cars on the roads is increasing all the time.
be rich/high in, contain Cashew nuts are rich in carbohydrate. 
pure Diamonds are crystals of pure carbon.
cut-out There was a life-size cardboard cut-out of Elvis Presley in the shop window. 
good, great He loved his books and took great care of them.
loving, tender She's still very frail and will need lots of tender loving care.
intensive Last night she was critically ill in intensive care. an intensive care unit
formal, informal The couple relied on informal care from relatives.
take He left his job to take care of his sick wife. I'll take care of hiring the car.
take sb into The boys were taken into care when their parents died. 
in ~ He had been in foster care since he was five.
in sb's ~ You won't come to any harm while you're in their care. Many historic sites are in the care of the National Trust.
under the ~ of He's under the care of Dr Parks.
extreme, good, great Great care should be taken to ensure that the equipment is clean.
exquisite, meticulous, painstaking, scrupulous The little girl was writing her name with painstaking care.
exaggerated, excessive He takes excessive care of his appearance.
due (formal), proper, reasonable The householder has a duty to take reasonable care for the visitor's safety. 
with ~ A label on the box read: ‘Glass?handle with care’.
without ~ He was found guilty of driving without due care and attention. 
brilliant, distinguished, glittering, good, great, successful He had a distinguished career as a diplomat.
flagging He did a film for Hollywood to boost his flagging career.
chosen She achieved a lot in her chosen career.
build, carve out, have, make, pursue He made a good career for himself in football. She pursued a successful career in medicine.
last sth, span sth Her stage career spans sixty years.
opportunities, prospects, structure The profession has no clear career structure.
during/throughout your ~ She won many awards during her acting career.
~ with a brilliant career with the Royal Ballet 
the peak/height of your career She was at the peak of her playing career when she injured herself.
chequered, colourful, turbulent, varied He has had a somewhat chequered career.
school, working She started her working career as a waitress. 
make sb Bitter past experience had made her careful of what she confided to Nadia. 
awfully, doubly, especially, extra, extremely, particularly, really, specially, very Be extra careful when walking along country roads.
about She was quite careful about how she spoke to him.
of He's very careful of his reputation.
with She's extremely careful with money. 
deadly The terrorists parked the van with its deadly cargo in a dark alleyway.
human The boats discharged their human cargo a little way from the shore. 
load, take on The ship stopped to take on a cargo of fruit.
handle The port handles cargo from all over Europe. 
oriental, Persian
red (figurative) I didn't expect to get the red carpet treatment (= be treated like an important person). 
fit, lay I'm having the carpets fitted today.
tile The grey vinyl floor gave way to carpet tiles.
on a/the ~ The cat curled up on the carpet. 
form The leaves formed a carpet under the trees. 
in a/the ~ There's a seat in the next carriage. 
juice > Special page at FOOD 
dangle, hold out, offer (sb) They dangled the carrot of a large salary in front of me. 
ice-cream, juice, milk, yogurt Why are these milk cartons so difficult to open? 
in a/the ~ The soup is sold in cartons.
hard, ready The drugs are sold for hard cash.
pay (in) We'll have to pay cash for the tickets.
hold The bank should hold enough cash to satisfy customer demand.
in ~ The thieves stole £200 in cash. You can pay by cheque or in cash. 
hard-earned Imagine having to pay some of my hard-earned cash on a parking fine! 
generate, raise They had a football match to raise cash for the hospital.
flow The company is having cash flow problems.
cow (= the part of a business that always makes a profit) > Special page at BUSINESS 
insert He inserted a cassette into the machine.
play, put on She put on a U2 cassette.
on ~ I've got it on cassette. 
high, low He belongs to one of the highest castes. 
system the Hindu caste system 
almost She sounded almost casual.
carefully, elaborately, studiedly There was something a little too carefully casual in his tone.
about He was very casual about it all. 
big She went to Africa to photograph big cats.
Cheshire He was grinning like a Cheshire cat.
have, keep, own We have a pet cat called Archie.
neuter, spay They didn't want kittens, so they had their cat spayed.
worm The stray cats are wormed and treated with flea powder.
put down The cat was in constant pain so they had it put down. 
hiss, mew, miaow, purr, spit, yowl The cat miaowed pitifully. There was a cat yowling outside my window last night.
creep, pad, (be on the) prowl, slink A cat padded silently past. The cat slunk away into the darkness.
spray (sth) Cats mark their territory by spraying. 
nap (also catnap) A catnap at lunchtime can make you feel refreshed. 
fight like cat and dog In our childhood Irina and I fought like cat and dog.
play (a game of) cat and mouse Young car thieves enjoy playing cat and mouse with the police. 
remove A cataract can be removed under local anaesthetic. 
conveniently, easily These factors can be conveniently categorized under three headings. 
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to Her work is difficult to categorize. 
by We categorize voters by their choice of newspaper.
into Categorize the plants into four groups. 
do Who's doing the catering for the party? 
graze Villagers traditionally have the right to graze their cattle on the common land.
drive, herd, round up Farmers drove cattle along major roads as a protest against high taxes.
domesticate Cattle were first domesticated in Neolithic times. 
stray, wander Cattle that stray onto the electric railway line are killed instantly. 
grid There was a cattle grid across the road to stop the cows escaping.
prod Electric cattle prods were used against the demonstrators.
considerable, extreme, great, utmost The utmost caution must be exercised when handling explosives.
due We proceeded with due caution. 
advise, counsel, urge We urge caution in the use of this medication. 
with ~ The information should be treated with some caution. 
err on the side of caution (= to be too cautious), the need for caution I must stress the need for caution.
sound a note of caution The minister sounded a note of caution about the economy.
cast/throw caution to the wind/winds (= to start taking risks), a word of caution I would just like to add a word of caution. 
formal He received a formal caution. 
give sb, issue, let sb off with They let her off with a caution. 
rocky, mountain, underground We explored the rocky caves along the beach.
in a/the ~ We took shelter in a dark, dank cave. 
educational VERB + CD-ROM burn (sth onto), duplicate Now you can burn your photos onto a CD-ROM.
install CD-ROM + VERB contain sth CD-ROM + NOUN drive
edition This is the CD-ROM edition of the encyclopedia. 
on ~ This dictionary is also available on CD-ROM. > Special page at COMPUTER 
call for, demand, order The UN has passed a resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire.
call A 24-hour ceasefire was called to allow the distribution of aid.
hold, last There are concerns that the ceasefire might not hold. 
justly, rightly his justly celebrated portrait of Queen Juliana
as He has become celebrated as an artist.
for The area is celebrated for its food and wine. 
host Tonight's show features a host of celebrities. 
make sb The show's success made her an overnight celebrity. 
something of a celebrity He became something of a celebrity in his home town. 
divide Cells divide and form new cells. 
private, public He was buried in a private cemetery.
Catholic, Jewish, etc. 
impose The government has imposed strict censorship on the press.
tighten Political censorship has been tightened under the new regime.
severely The manager was severely censured for negligence. 
celebrate, commemorate, mark The club will hold a party to celebrate its centenary. 
very Our house is very central, so we can easily get to theatres and cinemas.
absolutely This distinction is of absolutely central importance. 
to These facts are central to the case. 
dead, very We've bought a flat in the very centre of Cambridge.
in the ~ (of) a museum in the centre of Birmingham 
important, leading, main, major, nerve (figurative) the economic nerve centre of Germany
commercial, cultural, economic, financial, industrial, trading, urban London is one of the main financial centres of the world. 
for The university is a major centre for scientific research. 
ground a party that occupies the centre ground of British politics 
left/right of centre Politically, she is slightly left of centre. 
be fortified a wholewheat cereal fortified with B group vitamins 
opening the opening ceremony of the Olympic games
cake-cutting, dedication, degree, funeral, graduation, inauguration, initiation, marriage, naming, presentation, prize-giving, signing, swearing-in, tea, unveiling, wedding, wreath-laying the Japanese tea ceremony 
conduct, hold, perform The marriage ceremony was performed by the bishop.
during a/the ~ A lot of people wept during the funeral ceremony.
in a/the ~ They were married in a simple ceremony. 
stand on I won't stand on ceremony (= be formal). 
without ~ Without ceremony, the woman slammed the door shut in my face. 
with due/great ceremony With due ceremony, he took the oath to become president. 
reasonable, virtual It's a virtual certainty that petrol will go up in price. 
degree It's difficult to predict with any degree of certainty how much it will cost. 
with ~ I couldn't say with absolute certainty that he's here. 
a lack of certainty There seems to be a lack of certainty over what we should do.
the one/only certainty The one certainty left in a changing world is death. 
long She wore a long gold chain round her neck.
in ~s The prisoner was led away in chains.
off sb's/the ~ Let the dog off its chain.
on a/the ~ They kept the dog on a chain all day long. 
a chain of office The mayor was wearing his chain of office.
a chain on the door Put the chain on the door before you go to bed.
form The people formed a human chain to pass the supplies up the beach. 
part of a chain This hotel is part of a large chain. 
unbroken There has been an unbroken chain of great violinists in the family.
club, committee, company, party She is married to a company chairman.
resign, stand down The chairman resigned following the allegations. > Note at JOB 
economic, environmental, intellectual, political, technical, technological Liszt's piano music presents an enormous technical challenge. 
face, meet, respond to, rise to, take on/up The gallery has risen to the challenge of exhibiting the works of young artists. He has taken on some exciting new challenges with this job. 
be, present, represent The demonstration represents a direct challenge to the new law. 
accept, take up I accepted his challenge to a game of chess.
beat off, fight off Our team will have to fight off the challenge from better trained teams. 
closest, main, nearest, serious, strong Her nearest challenger is the vice-president. 
take on He took on various challengers, but refused to fight Jackson. 
for the main challengers for the European title
burial, tomb a Bronze Age burial chamber
gas Millions died in the gas chambers in the war.
elected She believes there should be an elected second chamber to replace the House of Lords.
the Chamber of Deputies 
defending, reigning The reigning champion will defend her title tonight.
Olympic the Olympic skating champion
become, be crowned He was crowned champion after his fight in Atlanta. 
fair, fighting, sporting, realistic, reasonable There's a fair chance that nobody will come to the talk.
little, the merest, million-to-one, minimal, outside, slender, slim, slight There was only a million-to-one chance of it happening. As long as there is an outside chance, we will go for it.
fifty-fifty, one-in-three, -four, etc., 10, 20, etc. per cent They have a 90 per cent chance of success.
survival What are his survival chances?
give sb The doctors gave him (= said that he had ) little chance of surviving the night.
be in with, have, stand After a poor start, they are now in with a chance of winning the league. He doesn't stand a chance of winning against such an experienced player.
assess, rate How do you rate our chances of finding her?
fancy I don't fancy our chances of getting there on time.
by any ~ Are you by any chance Mr Ludd?
~ of The missing climber's chances of survival are slim. 
fat chance (informal) Fat chance (= there is no chance) of him helping you!
have every chance She has every chance of passing the exam if she works hard.
no chance! ‘Will he lend us his car?’ ‘No chance!’
on the off chance (= just in case) I rang the firm just on the off chance that they might have a vacancy. 
fair, good, great, ideal, wonderful She played left-handed to give her opponent a fair chance. This is the ideal chance for him to show his ability.
big This is your big chance?grab it with both hands.
last, second The teacher gave her one last chance to prove she could behave. There are no second chances in this business.
educational, life The new college is intended to improve the life chances of children in the inner city.
element There is always an element of chance in buying a used car. 
get, have I finally had the chance to meet my hero.
deserve He deserves the chance to give his side of the story.
welcome I would welcome the chance to give my opinion.
deny sb No child should be denied the chance of growing up in a family.
create, make (sport) The team created several clear chances but failed to score.
spot She spotted her chance of making a quick profit.
grab, grasp, jump at, seize, take Travis had left the door open?she seized her chance and was through it like a shot. Take every chance that comes your way.
blow, miss, pass up, squander, throw away, turn down, waste They blew their chance to go second in the league. I wouldn't pass up the chance of working for them. 
arise, come up, come your way When the chance came up to go to Paris, she jumped at it. 
given the chance Given the chance, I'd stop work tomorrow.
half a chance The dog always runs off when it gets half a chance.
let a chance slip (by) If she let this chance slip, she would regret it for the rest of her life. 
take The guide book didn't mention the hotel, but we decided to take a chance. 
on The manager took a chance on the young goalkeeper.
~ with The police were taking no chances with the protesters. 
happy, lucky By a happy chance he bumped into an old friend on the plane.
leave sth to Leaving nothing to chance, he delivered the letter himself. 
by ~ The police came upon the hideout purely by chance.
due to ~ The results could simply be due to chance.
through ~ I got most answers right through sheer chance. 
a game of chance Chess is not a game of chance.
take your chances (= take a risk in the hope that things will turn out well) He took his chances and jumped into the water. 
considerably, dramatically, fundamentally, a lot, radically, significantly Our way of life has changed dramatically over the last ten years. Jane has changed a lot since she went to university.
(very) little The village has actually changed very little in the last hundred years.
all the time, constantly, continually The language is changing all the time.
fast, rapidly, suddenly Attitudes to marriage are changing fast.
from Leeds changed from a small market town into a busy city.
into, to His anger changed to sadness. 
change out of all recognition The town had changed out of all recognition. 
Gregorian a group of monks singing Gregorian chant
football You could hear the football chants a long way from the stadium. 
keep up The crowd kept up an incessant chant of ‘Out! Out! Out!’
amid ~s, to ~s The band left the stage to chants of ‘We want more! We want more!’
appear, be, look, seem Things often appear chaotic to the outsider.
become, get Things have been getting chaotic in the office recently. 
really, very It was really chaotic just before the show started.
absolutely Heathrow airport is absolutely chaotic.
a bit, fairly, pretty, quite, rather, somewhat Things can be fairly chaotic in our house. 
side The funeral was conducted in one of the smaller side chapels.
family, hospital, memorial, prison, private, royal, school, wedding They were married in a wedding chapel in Las Vegas. 
be dedicated to sb The chapel is dedicated to St Michael. 
aptist, Methodist, Nonconformist, etc. 
attend, go to He goes to chapel every Sunday. 
at ~ They are still at chapel (= at a service).
at a/the ~ They agreed to meet at the chapel after the service. 
colourful, larger-than-life, lively, real You must have come across some real characters, working in the circus.
reformed He used to go out every night, but now he's a reformed character.
dubious, shady, suspicious Who's that suspicious character hanging around outside?
local The pub was full of colourful local characters.
reveal She revealed her true character when anyone disagreed with her.
reflect His scruffy appearance does not reflect his character. 
change She's undergone a complete character change since her promotion.
reference Applicants were required to obtain character references before being considered for the work.
assassination The defence lawyer attempted a character assassination of the witness (= tried to show the witness had a bad character).
in sb's ~ It's not in his character to tell lies.
out of ~ The lawyer argued that his client's violent behaviour was out of character. 
traditional The renovated buildings retain their traditional character.
international, national, regional Food in Italy has a distinct regional character. the features that make up the national character
public the public character of material published on the Internet
rural, urban The development detracts from the rural character of the area. 
have Each house in the street has its own distinctive character.
assume, take on As you move north, the landscape takes on a different character.
lose The town centre 
in ~ The houses are Mediterranean in character. 
have His face has character?I'll say that for it.
full of character The restaurant is cheap and full of character.
have a character of its own/all (of) its own Your handwriting has a character of its own. 
show The team showed great character in coming back to win.
build Adventure camps are considered to be character-building. 
play, portray The main character is played by Nicole Kidman.
develop the artist who developed the Superman character
kill off The writers killed off her character when she wanted to leave the soap. 
in ~ The actors remained in character to answer questions from the audience. 
ASCII, numeric 
have The two species have several characteristics in common. 
be entitled to, be free to, have a right to Firms are free to charge whatever they like for their services. 
against Research and development expenditure is charged against profits in the year it is incurred.
at Stamp Duty will be charged at one per cent.
for We don't charge for delivery.
on The bank charges a commission on all foreign currency transactions.
to The cost is charged directly to the profit and loss account. 
jointly The teenagers were jointly charged with attempted murder. 
in connection with A man has been charged in connection with the attack.
with She has not yet been formally charged with the offence. 
around/round, in, out The children were all charging around outside. 
at I was worried that the animal might charge at us.
down I heard the sound of feet charging down the stairs.
into She charged into the room.
out of, through, towards The rhino charged headlong towards us.
go to All the proceeds from the sale will go to charity.
accept They are proud people who don't accept charity.
depend on, live on They have no money and are forced to live on charity. 
for ~ The school raised over a hundred pounds for charity.
absolutely, altogether, perfectly, quite, thoroughly, utterly She looked small and gentle and altogether charming.
flip, wall Each classroom has a flip chart to write on.
on a/the ~ The percentage of school-leavers is shown on the chart. 
on a/the ~ The islands were not marked on their chart. 
enter, go into, hit Their single went straight into the charts at number one. His latest single hit the charts last week.
be top of, top The song topped the charts for three weeks. 
in the ~ Is that song still in the charts? 
car The film ends with a long car chase.
wild goose He sent us on a wild goose chase (= a search for sth that cannot be found). 
give, take up The old lady shouted for help and then gave chase. A police officer arrived on the scene and took up the chase.
abandon, give up Exhausted and hungry, the hunters finally gave up the chase.
join (in) Several children joined in the chase. 
in ~ (of) She ran in chase of the pram. 
the thrill of the chase What did he really want? Was it just the thrill of the chase? 
have We had a nice chat over a cup of tea. 
~ between a chat between Mr Blair and a journalist
~ to/with I'll have a chat to John about it. a friendly chat with a neighbour 
constant, endless, incessant Her constant chatter was starting to annoy me.
idle I wish you'd stop wasting time in idle chatter. 
about She was full of chatter about her new friends. 
drive (sb/sth) The chauffeur drove them straight to the theatre. 
chauffeur-driven The newly-weds set off in a chauffeur-driven limousine. > Note at JOB 
random, spot In a series of spot checks, police searched buses crossing the border.
visual I did a quick visual check of the engine.
spell/spelling I do a spell check on all my emails.
sound The band wants to do a sound check before the concert. 
carry out, conduct, do, give sth, have, make, run I'll just have a quick check to see if the letter's arrived. A thorough check is made before the luggage is put on the plane. We're running a police check on all applicants for the job.
keep, maintain Police are keeping a close check on the house.
go for I have to go for a dental check. 
natural Leaving some fields fallow provided a natural check on insect populations. 
hold sth in, keep sth in You need to keep your temper in check! 
on The law acts as a check on people's behaviour. 
draw up, produce My boss is drawing up a checklist of my duties.
go through, run through We ran through the checklist of points to consider when buying a computer. 
set up The army has set up checkpoints on all the major roads in the area. 
at a/the ~ We were stopped at the checkpoint.
through a/the ~ The police waved our car through the border checkpoint. 
sunken His red-rimmed eyes and sunken cheeks betrayed his lack of sleep.
tear-stained, wet Her cheeks were wet with tears. 
brush, dab (at), stroke, touch She dabbed at her cheeks with a handkerchief.
give (sb), proffer She proffered her cheek to kiss. 
blaze, burn, flame, grow hot, redden He felt his cheeks burning with shame. 
across sb's/the ~ She gave him a sharp slap across his cheek.
against sb's ~ She laid her cheek against his.
down sb's ~ A tear slid down her cheek.
in sb's ~s She had a healthy bloom in her cheeks.
on sb's/the ~ He kissed his mother on both cheeks and got on the train. 
bring the colour (back) to your cheeks, the colour floods/rises/rushes to your cheeks The colour flooded to his cheeks when he realized he was being watched.
a kiss/peck on the cheek She gave him a peck on the cheek and said goodbye. 
awful, bare-faced, colossal It's an awful cheek, the way he keeps asking you to lend him money.
have He's got a cheek, making you wait outside his office. 
f all the cheek!/What (a) cheek! He asked you for money? Of all the cheek! 
big, deafening, great, hearty, huge, loud, rousing The players were greeted by rousing cheers. 
give (sb) They gave a big cheer when I finally arrived.
be greeted by/with, get, raise She got a loud cheer when she finished speaking. 
go up A deafening cheer went up from the crowd. 
amid/amidst ~ He accepted the prize amid cheers.
to ~s She went off the stage to loud cheers.
~ from There were loud cheers from the crowd.
three cheers for sb/sth Three cheers for Mr Jones, who has been such a wonderful teacher! 
keep, remain, stay I'm amazed that she keeps so cheerful.
keep sb We tried to keep him cheerful. 
falsely ‘The doctor is on her way, ’ said Mrs Morris, sounding falsely cheerful. 
apprentice, second, sous, trainee He took a job as a sous chef in a London hotel. > Note at JOB 
chemist's (shop), the chemist's I've just got to go to the chemist's. 
inorganic, organic > Note at JOB 
issue, make out, sign, write (out), write sb Shall I make the cheque out to you? Can I write you a cheque?
draw He drew a large cheque on his company's account.
make payable Cheques should be made payable to Toyland plc.
deposit, pay in She deposited the cheque in her husband's account. I've got to go to the bank to pay this cheque in.
cash I'll cash a traveller's cheque at the bank.
accept Does the restaurant accept cheques?
clear, honour, pass He was sacked for passing bad cheques.
bounce The cheque will bounce if your salary doesn't reach your account today. 
(guarantee) card Cheques must be supported by a cheue guarantee card.
dark, deep > Special page at COLOUR 
battery, corn-fed, free-range Battery chickens have miserable lives.
truss (up) Are we just going to sit here like trussed up chickens? 
scratch A few scrawny chickens were scratching around the yard.
a) breast/leg of chicken, chicken and chips > Special page at FOOD 
die in His wife died in childbirth in 1928. 
the pain of childbirth She dreaded the pain of childbirth. 
feel I could feel the chill as soon as I went outside.
take off I'll add some hot water to the milk to take the chill off it (= to make it slightly warmer). 
factor With the chill factor, it's nearly minus forty here. 
a chill in the air There's a slight chill in the air. 
feel She felt a sudden chill at the thought of the dangers he faced.
strike Her words struck a chill in his heart. 
run down/up sb's spine, run through sb A chill ran through me at the thought. 
send a chill through sb/down sb's spine The news sent a chill down her spine. 
catch, get I caught a nasty chill after my swim last week. > Special page at ILLNESS 
beans > Special page at FOOD 
smoking The air was black from smoking chimneys.
draw This chimney doesn't draw very well. 
best She got out the best china for the visitors.
eat, have All he'll eat is chips.
live on I never cook anything grand?we live on chips and baked beans.
and/with chips fish and chips > Special page at FOOD 
use This computer uses the DX chip. 
set a Pentium-compatible chip set 
on a/the ~ Advances in chip technology have made it possible to pack even more circuits on a chip. > Special page at COMPUTER 
bit, piece, square He broke off a few squares of chocolate.
box I gave her a box of hand-made Belgian chocolates. 
break (up) into pieces/squares She broke a bar of dark chocolate into four pieces.
melt Melt 100g of cooking chocolate in a basin over hot water.
melt Stir until the chocolate has melted. 
factory > Special page at FOOD 
be in, sing in She sings in the church choir.
practice Choir practice is on Wednesday evenings. 
epidemic, outbreak A cholera epidemic swept the country.
case, victim > Special page at ILLNESS 
carefully He chose his words carefully.
freely They can choose freely from a wide range of courses. 
be able to, be free to, can You are free to choose whichever courses you want to take. 
between She had to choose between giving up her job or hiring a nanny.
from There are several different models to choose from. 
pick and choose You have to take any job you can get?you can't pick and choose. 
finely Add finely chopped parsley.
roughly Roughly chop the cabbage.
up I spent the day chopping up wood.
down There are concerns over how quickly the forests are being chopped down.
off He chopped off the small branches before cutting down the tree. 
into Chop the meat into small cubes. 
chop sth to pieces The furniture had been chopped to pieces. 
carry out, do It'll take me an hour to do the household chores. 
at a/the ~ We all got together at the christening. 
muscular Victorian ‘muscular Christianity’ was all about achieving self-control through strict mental and physical discipline.
Catholic, Orthodox, Protestant > Note at RELIGION(for verbs and phrases) 
broadly The anthology is broadly chronological. 
about/over She was still chuckling about the story the next day.
at He chuckled at the thought of the two of them stuck in the snow. 
chuckle to yourself She chuckled softly to herself as she remembered his astonished look. 
big, great, huge, large, sizeable, substantial He bit a great chunk out of the apple. This one project has taken a substantial chunk of our budget.
bite-size/bite-sized, manageable He cut the food up into bite-size chunks. (figurative) The listening texts consist of short, bite-sized chunks which are accessible to beginners.
in a/the ~ I bought the cheese in one big chunk.
down a/the ~ The rubbish goes down the chute into a large bin. 
draw on, pull on He paused and drew on his cigar.
burn Her thin cigar burned quite quickly.
glow His cigar glowed in the darkened room. 
brandy/port and cigars They left the men to their port and cigars. 
burnt to a cinder (= completely burnt) By the time I got home, the cake was burnt to a cinder. 
complete, full The stones form a complete circle. How long does it take for the dial to rotate through a full circle?
widening The water rippled in widening circles round the fountain.
tight He turned the car in a tight circle.
Antarctic, Arctic, polar 
describe (technical), go around/round in If you follow the road signs you will simply find yourself going round in a circle.
in a/the ~ The children stood in a circle. The planets move in circles round the sun.
wide She has a wide circle of acquaintances.
charmed, close/closed, intimate, magic, select He invited only a select circle of friends to the wedding.
immediate They treat anyone outside their immediate circle with suspicion.
inner He's joined the inner circles of the court early in his career.
academic, aristocratic, artistic, business, court, diplomatic, government, intellectual, literary, official, political, royal, social, sporting, theatrical ~s She moves in the highest social circles.
move in My brother and I move in completely different circles (= we have very different friends).
widen You need to widen your circle of friends. 
in a/the ~ Talk of religion was forbidden in the family circle. friends in government circles 
dress, upper Our seats are in the front row of the dress circle. 
short The lights were not working because of a short circuit.
amateur, professional Talent scouts spotted him playing on the amateur circuit.
on a/the ~ She's a well-known figure on the international lecture circuit. 
do, make We did a complete circuit of the park in twenty minutes. 
freely Air can circulate freely through the tunnels. 
around/round The heart circulates blood around the body.
through Blood circulates through the arteries and veins. 
widely The book was circulated widely in Russia.
around/round There's a story circulating around the office that you are about to leave the company.
to The document will be circulated to all members. 
above, already, earlier, previously This is similar to the example cited above.
commonly, frequently, often The most commonly cited reasons for stopping the treatment were lack of efficacy and side effects.
as He cited the fall in unemployment as one of the government's successes. 
British, Chinese, etc. 
have, hold He has German citizenship.
give sb, grant sb They were granted full French citizenship.
acquire, take Ten years later, she chose to take Australian citizenship.
be stripped of, lose He was stripped of his citizenship when he criticized the government.
give up, renounce You will have to renounce citizenship of this country if you apply for citizenship of another.
to The teachers were all quite civil to me. 
ancient, early the early civilizations of the Middle East and China
Greek, Roman, etc.
European, Western diseases that are common in Western civilization
human Art and music are among the great products of human civilization. 
the beginnings/dawn of civilization, civilization as we know it Could this be the end of civilization as we know it?
conflicting There are conflicting claims about the cause of the fire.
make The company had made false claims about its products. I make no claim to understand modern art.
accept They accepted her claim that she had been ill-treated.
deny, dismiss, dispute, reject Claims of a cover-up were dismissed.
back up, substantiate, support They were able to produce witnesses to support their claim.
~ of Claims of corruption within the police force were denied. 
bogus, fraudulent Police are investigating fraudulent claims for fire damage.
bring, file, lodge, make, put forward/in, submit She brought a claim for damages against the company.
allow, uphold His claim for compensation was upheld in court.
meet, pay, settle We will need extra funds to meet all the insurance claims. 
fail The claim failed because the company had not been misled. 
~ on to make a claim on your insurance policy I have many claims on my time. 
prior She had a prior claim on his affections.
have He has a good claim to the land.
assert, lay, press, stake Four men laid claim to leadership of the country. to stake a claim to some of the prize money
establish, prove You will have to prove your claim to the property in a court of law.
on His children have a claim on his estate.
~ to She renounced her claim to the property. 
still He raised a hand to still the clamour. 
above/amid the ~ She could barely make herself heard above the clamour of the rain.
~ for The clamour for her resignation grew louder. 
with a ~ The door shut with a loud clang.
the clang of metal > Note at SOUND 
for A big clap for our last contestant! 
ask for, call for, seek Employers are seeking further clarification of the proposals.
head-on The leaders are preparing for a head-on clash at the summit.
in a/the ~ Several people were injured in violent clashes with the police.
~ between Clashes between the rebels and government forces have broken out in the north.
~ over Differences in the aims of the two unions have led to serious clashes over policy.
tightly She clasped her bag tightly as she walked through the crowd.
warmly He clasped my hand warmly in welcome.
together She faced Will, her hands clasped together. 
of one of the great classics of English literature 
make The wheels of the cart made a terrible clatter on the cobblestones.
with a ~ She dropped her fork with a clatter.
~ of There was a clatter of hooves and a party of riders drew up. 
clawback (= for retrieving money already paid out), confidentiality, escalator (= that allows for a rise in wages or prices under certain conditions), force majeure, indemnity, liability, limitation, penalty The penalty clause specifies that late delivery will be fined.
contain, have The contract contains a confidentiality clause.
add, include, insert, put in We added an opt-out clause to the agreement.
in a/the ~ There is some ambiguity in this clause.
under a/the ~ Under Clause 5.8, the company is responsible for the health of its employees.
in a/the ~ The completed action is in the main clause. 
be, feel, seem I felt a bit claustrophobic in the tiny room.
make sb Crowds make me claustrophobic.
find sth I find that building intensely claustrophobic. 
a bit, rather, somewhat The atmosphere was somewhat claustrophobic. 
mould, shape She moulded the clay into the shape of a head.
effectively, well This product cleans baths very effectively.
properly, thoroughly I clean the house thoroughly once a week.
carefully, gently He gently cleaned the wound and dressed it.
out, up I cleaned out all the cupboards. 
off I cleaned the mud off the kitchen floor.
with Clean the glass with a soft cloth. 
need cleaning Your shoes need cleaning! 
personal His mother gave him a lecture about personal cleanliness. 
a standard of cleanliness, a state of cleanliness The bathroom was in a good state of cleanliness. 
crystal, perfectly, quite You've got to make your intentions crystal clear to them.
by no means, not entirely, not quite It wasn't entirely clear whether she wanted us to help.
to It was clear to us that there was a problem. 
about She was quite clear about her reasons for leaving.
on Are you clear on that point? 
extremely, very The photograph wasn't very clear.
fairly, reasonably The water was fairly clear. 
keep sth Make sure you keep all gutters and drainpipes clear of leaves. 
of The roads are reasonably clear of snow. 
get, obtain, receive You'll need to get security clearance for this job.
give sb, grant sb The pilot was granted clearance to land.
ground We need to increase the vehicle's ground clearance. 
allow (sb/sth), give sb/sth, leave Make sure you allow enough clearance on each side. Always give cyclists plenty of clearance. 
~ between There wasn't enough clearance between the bus and the top of the bridge. 
to He held the post of Clerk to the Council. 
the office/post of clerk > Note at JOB 
give (out) The answerphone gave a sharp click.
with a ~ He closed his briefcase with a click.
~ of She heard the click of shoes on the marble floor. 
attract, have The restaurant has a large regular clientele.
cater for/to, serve The boutique caters for a rather select clientele.
build (up), establish It takes time to build up a clientele. 
equatorial, Mediterranean, subtropical, temperate, tropical
have The city has a warm climate. 
in a/the ~ Little grows in such a dry climate. 
in a/the ~ His ideas on equality are viewed as utopian in the current political climate.
~ of The new policies have created a climate of fear. 
do, make I was fitter the first time I did the climb. 
on a/the ~ I broke my ankle on a climb last week.
~ up They began the long climb up the hill. 
together The children clung together in fear. 
onto She clung onto my arm.
to He clung tightly to the raft to keep himself afloat. 
close/closely The ground mist clung closely to the hedgerows. 
to PHRASAL VERBS cling (on) to sth 
rigidly, stubbornly, tenaciously He still clings stubbornly to his socialist ideas.
desperately, fiercely She was desperately clinging on to life. 
purely She regarded her patients from a purely clinical standpoint.
almost He looked at the body with an almost clinical detachment. 
about How can you be so cold and clinical about your son's accident? 
drape, throw She threw a heavy woollen cloak over her shoulders.
draw, pull, wrap He pulled his cloak tightly around himself.
flow, fly, sweep, swirl a flowing black cloak She stormed off, her cloak flying behind her. > Special page at CLOTHES 
draw, get She grew increasingly nervous as the date of the audition drew closer.
keep, stay Keep close to me. 
together Their birthdays are very close together. 
to Get close to the microphone. 
be, feel, seem The two sisters seemed very close.
become, grow After the death of their parents the two children grew very close.
to He was quite close to his older brother. 
firmly, tightly He closed the door firmly. 
down, off, up That factory's been closed down now. 
to The museum has been temporarily closed to the public. 
extreme CLOSE-UP + NOUN detail The slide gave close-up detail of petal formation.
in ~ The wound was photographed in extreme close-up. 
fully Jenny was fully clothed.
lightly, partially It was warm and she was lightly clothed. Her partially clothed body was found in woods nearby. 
protective, waterproof Workers at the factory wear protective clothing.
start England and Wales will start cloudy.
become Later it will become cloudy with rain in places.
remain, stay It stayed cloudy for most of the day. 
be, look The beer looked cloudy.
make sth The warm water is made cloudy by adding some milk. 
rather, slightly Sometimes the drinking water becomes rather cloudy. 
football, golf, etc. She plays at the local tennis club.
belong to She belongs to a book club.
run Who runs the tennis club? 
in a/the ~ How many people are there in the club? > Note at ORGANIZATION 
scene a new style of music on the London club scene 
dense These plants quickly form dense clumps.
together The group clustered together closely. 
about/around/round The children clustered around their teacher. 
at He felt himself slipping and clutched at a branch. 
clutch sth in your hand She clutched her handbag tightly in one hand.
clutch sth to your chest She clutched the letter to her chest. 
by ~ They are planning to tour the United States by coach.
road This is the old coach road.
acting, drama, voice > Note at JOB 
create, form The centre-right opposition parties have formed a coalition.
lead a coalition led by the Socialist Party 
in (a/the) ~ The two parties governed in coalition for four years. the biggest party in the government coalition
~ between a coalition between the Socialists and Communists
~ with They formed a coalition with the Greens. 
follow The road follows the Pacific coastline.
stretch The coastline stretches for miles. 
along a/the ~ They sailed along the rugged coastline.
around/round a/the ~ sailing around the Atlantic coastline of France
off a/the ~ the search for oil off the Welsh coastline 
specially The fabric has been specially coated to improve its water resistance. 
in Coat the fish in the sauce.
with The furniture was thickly coated with dust. 
from He could coax tears and laughter from his audience.
into He gently coaxed life back into my frozen toes.
out of She never failed to coax good results out of her pupils. 
barnyard The market traders cried out like barnyard cocks. 
crow The cock crowed at dawn. 
complete, real, total VERB + COCK-UP make He made a real cock-up of it. 
over There's been a bit of a cock-up over the travel arrangements. 
Morse 
break, crack, decipher The code was difficult to crack.
in ~ All the messages were in code. 
area, dialling What's the area code for Bath?
DNA, genetic
Highway the Highway Code (= the official rules for users of public roads in Britain)
devise, draw up, establish, formulate, lay down The company has drawn up a new disciplinary code.
break, infringe, violate He was thrown out for infringing the club's strict dress code. 
a code of behaviour/conduct/ethics/honour/practice The profession has a strict code of practice. 
milky, white She drinks very milky coffee with lots of sugar.
hot, steaming a pot of piping hot coffee He brought in two mugs of steaming coffee.
fresh The others will be back soon?I'll go and make some fresh coffee.
instant Would you like real or instant coffee?
Irish (= with whiskey added), Turkish (= very strong, black and sweet) 
drink Do you drink coffee?
have I had two coffees while I waited.
take ‘How do you take your coffee?’ ‘Milk, no sugar, thanks.’
sip, take a mouthful/sip of He took a sip of his coffee.
go for Let's go for a coffee when you've finished your essay.
brew, make freshly-brewed coffee I'll make some coffee for breakfast.
in your ~ I have milk but no sugar in my coffee. 
an aroma/a smell of coffee An inviting smell of coffee wafted into the room.
coffee-making facilities Tea and coffee-making facilities are available in the kitchen. 
internal Your essay lacks internal coherence.
achieve, create, give sth, maintain They have struggled to create coherence within the group.
~ in/within There's a strong sense of coherence in the school curriculum. 
up He coiled the rope up tightly and put it away. 
around/round The snake coiled itself around a branch.
into Her hair was neatly coiled into a bun. 
exactly Her visit coincided exactly with a visit by the American president.
with The singer's arrival was timed to coincide with the opening of the festival. 
with Our views on this issue coincide closely with yours. 
entirely, merely, purely, quite These parallels cannot be merely coincidental.
become, get, grow, turn As evening fell it got very cold. The room grew cold. In January it turned very cold.
make sb/sth The rain overnight had made the water cold.
keep sth Use ice to keep the drinks cold. 
bitterly, extremely, freezing, ice-, icy, terribly, very It's bitterly cold outside. There was a freezing cold wind. an ice-cold beer
get, go Your dinner's getting cold. I'm afraid the coffee's gone cold.
eat sth, serve sth Bake in the oven for twenty minutes. Serve hot or cold. 
stone This soup is stone cold! 
icy The icy coldness of the water revived her. 
marked There was a marked coldness in her voice. 
between the coldness between Jack and Martha
on, with We have collaborated closely with the university on this project. 
be close to, be on the point/verge of She was on the verge of nervous collapse. 
a state of collapse He was in a state of mental and physical collapse. 
bring about, contribute to, lead to, result in The war has led to the collapse of agriculture in the area.
open, undone His tie was knotted below his open collar. His collar was undone.
clerical, dog The vicar had his dog collar on. 
have The shirt had a button-down collar.
raise, turn up She turned up her coat collar for extra warmth.
collar and tie He wore a collar and tie for the occasion. 
slip The dog slipped its collar and ran off. 
core, permanent The permanent collection is displayed on the first floor, whilst the ground floor houses temporary exhibitions.
reserve The museum has a large reserve collection in storage, which members of the public rarely get to see.
antiques, art, book, CD, coin, manuscript, photographic, picture, plant, record, stamp 
boast, have The museum boasts a superb collection of medieval weapons.
acquire, amass, assemble, build up, compile, make He built up his collection over a period of ten years. She made a collection of Roman coins and medals.
complete She needed only one more stamp to complete her collection.
display, exhibit, show A glass-fronted cabinet displayed a collection of china figurines.
view, visit, see I was allowed to view his family collection of portrait miniatures.
consult, study Historians frequently ask to consult the collection.
organize She had the task of cataloguing the library and organizing the collection of rare manuscripts. 
consist of sth, contain sth, include sth The collection contains some 500 items.
cover sth The collection covers all phases of Picasso's career.
grow The museum's collection is growing all the time.
be available, be/go on display/show/view The collection is to go on public display for the first time next month. The collection is rarely on view to the public. 
of a valuable collection of antique porcelain > Note at ART 
free The council offers free collection of waste.
await, be ready for Your car is awaiting collection at our garage.
arrange, organize They will arrange collection of the chairs. 
of There are some difficulties with the collection of reliable data. 
have, make, organize, take We will have a collection for charity at the end of the concert. A collection will be taken at the end of the service. 
agricultural, art, FE/further education, military, music, police, secretarial, teacher training, technical, theological, veterinary, etc. 
at ~ She's at college in Swindon.
in ~ Not all the lecturers are in college at any one time. 
be involved in, have I had a near collision with a lorry.
happen, occur The collision occurred near the hospital. 
in a/the ~ She was injured in a collision.
in ~ with The car was in collision with a lorry.
be on a collision course with sth An iceberg was on a collision course with the ship. 
overseas Britain's overseas colonies
establish Settlers established a new colony in the early 18th century. 
form Some of the insects will leave to form a new colony. 
in a/the ~ The birds nest in huge colonies.
heavily, strongly His opinions are heavily coloured by his own experiences.
have He daughter has very fair colouring. 
fall into, go into, sink into, slip into He sank into a coma after suffering a brain haemorrhage.
in a/the ~ He has been in a coma since his car accident three months ago. 
be engaged in, be locked in, engage in The troops were locked in hand-to-hand combat.
in ~ He was killed in combat.
in ~ with The soldiers are in combat with rebel forces.
successfully She successfully combines her career with family life. 
with Combine the flour with the water to make a stiff paste. 
film, radio, stand-up, television/TV He started out as a stand-up comedian in Liverpool.
alternative > Note at JOB 
great, maximum, modest, reasonable They live in modest comfort.
for ~ I dress for comfort rather than glamour.
in ~ I like to travel in reasonable comfort. 
a degree/standard of comfort, in the comfort of your own home, too close/hot for comfort The hotel offers a high standard of comfort. The sound of gunfire was too close for comfort. 
cold A drop in the unemployment rate was cold comfort for those without a job (= not much comfort at all). 
bring sb, give sb, offer sb, provide sb with His kind words brought some comfort to the grieving parents.
derive, draw, find, get, seek, take They sought comfort in each other. We took great comfort from the fact that at least some of our savings were safe. 
food Chocolate is a great comfort food. 
in She found comfort in music. 
to The children have been a great comfort to me through all of this. 
creature, home, material I hate camping?I miss all my creature comforts.
be, feel, look The bed felt comfortable.
make sth We must think how we can make the room more comfortable for you. 
enough, fairly, moderately, quite, reasonably The hotel was comfortable enough.
be, feel, look Did you feel comfortable and relaxed at the party?
become, get This bed is lumpy?I just can't seem to get comfortable.
make sb/yourself Make yourself comfortable! 
completely, entirely, quite, totally I was not entirely comfortable about the plans they had made. 
about They didn't feel comfortable about her travelling alone.
with I don't feel comfortable with him. 
quite, relatively I had a relatively comfortable life in Brazil. 
richly, truly, wonderfully Many of the scenes in the book are richly comic.
bark, give, issue an army officer barking commands at his men He issued the command to retreat. 
at sb's ~ I am at your command (= ready to obey you). At her command all work stopped. 
complete, full, total He was in complete command of the situation.
direct under the direct command of Lieutenant Sykes
sole She was in sole command of one million pounds.
integrated, joint, unified NATO's integrated military command
have He had command of 3,000 soldiers.
lose, be relieved of She has lost command of her senses. 
in ~ Who is in command? She is second in command.
in ~ of He was put in command of the navy.
under sb's ~ The division was under the command of General George.
at your ~ The vast knowledge of the country he has at his command will be invaluable in the job.
~ of She has an excellent command of French. 
for He was commended for his brave actions.
to She said she would commend the proposal to the Board. 
be highly/widely commended His book was highly commended.
sth has little/much to commend it The proposed site has much to commend it. 
fair, favourable What she said was (a) fair comment.
adverse, derogatory, disparaging, hostile, negative, sad, unfair, unfavourable The attack is a sad comment on the public's understanding of mental illness.
critical Highly critical comments have been made about the conduct of some ministers. a book with critical comment on the various strands of feminism
casual, off-the-cuff, passing, throwaway He made a few casual comments to her about her hair and now she's gone and chopped it all off! This idea deserves more than passing comment.
editorial, official, personal, press, public Editorial comment in ‘The Guardian’ tended to support the government in this matter.
political, social Her novels were a vehicle for shrewd social comment. 
have, make, pass If you have any comments, please send them to the above address. She made a cryptic comment about how the film mirrored her life. I would prefer not to pass comment before I have more information on the case.
attract, cause, draw, elicit, excite The programme attracted much adverse comment.
invite, welcome The school has invited comments from parents about the new curriculum.
receive We have received many helpful comments from fellow-sufferers. 
without ~ She accepted his diagnosis without comment.
be available/not available/unavailable for comment The minister was unavailable for comment last night.
no comment When asked about the rumours, the chairman replied, ‘no comment’.
a source of comment His visits were the source of much comment. 
running (= continuous) She kept up a running commentary on the festivities.
on BBC1 will give a live commentary on the election results. 
provide The novel provides a powerful social commentary on post-war Germany. 
be a sad commentary (on sth) (= to reflect badly on sth) The petty quarrels were a sad commentary on the state of the government. 
carry on, engage in The marketplace was where commerce was traditionally carried on. 
between commerce between Germany and Italy
~ with the development of commerce with Asia 
a chamber of commerce, the world of commerce She has little experience of the world of commerce. 
accept, get, receive I have received a private commission to paint the prince's family.
appoint, establish, set up The government has set up a joint commission to consider the problem.
charge That bank charges a high commission for cashing traveller's cheques.
in ~ She earned £2,000 in commission last month.
on ~ Most of the salespeople are on commission.
~ for/on They get a 10% commission on every encyclopedia they sell. 
European Union/EU, police, United Nations/UN 
for He was appointed United Nations High Commissioner for refugees. 
irrevocably The country was now irrevocably committed to war.
personally The prime minister is personally committed to this legislation.
emotionally, financially, ideologically, politically She cared for Jem in her way but did not want to become emotionally committed. 
to We are committed to improving services. 
rare, scarce Coal is becoming a rare commodity.
precious, valuable Time is a very valuable commodity.
have That child has got no common sense! At least he had the common sense to turn the water off before he left.
exercise, rely on/upon, show, use Use a bit of common sense! 
prevail I hope that common sense will prevail.
dictate sth, suggest sth, tell sb sth Common sense should tell you that people will find out sooner or later. 
not) an ounce of common sense He hasn't an ounce of common sense. 
regard sth as Such actions were regarded as commonplace during the war. 
enough, fairly, quite, rather Her situation sounded commonplace enough. 
among/amongst These ideas are commonplace among teenagers. 
join He gave up his job in the city and joined a commune.
in/on a/the ~ She lives in a commune. 
effective, good Good communication is important for business.
have I haven't had any communication with him for several years.
break down Communication between the two sides has broken down. 
in ~ with We are in regular communication with the kidnappers.
~ with We need better communication with clients. 
a lack of communication, a means/method/system of communication Letters are their only means of communication. 
between They tried to disrupt communications between the two headquarters.
~ with Paris has good rail communications with other major cities. 
about He received an official communication about the reorganization of the Ministry.
Asian, black, etc. the Asian community in Britain
Christian, Muslim, etc.
a member of the community, part of a community, a pillar of the community (= a strong supporter of the community), a sense of community There is a strong sense of community in this town. 
dinner, drinking, travelling, walking He was an entertaining travelling companion. 
for/to She lived in the house as a companion to our grandmother. 
start-up a major European company
work for She's been working for the same company for 15 years.
make sth, produce sth The company produces cotton goods.
fail, go bankrupt, go bust, go into liquidation, go out of business, go to the wall (informal), go under During the recession many small companies went out of business. 
in a/the ~ He has shares in several companies.
a director of a company > Special page at BUSINESS 
ballet, theatre, etc. a small touring theatre company > Note at ORGANIZATION(for verbs) 
good, pleasant He's very good company.
have It's nice to have a bit of company for a change.
keep sb I'll stay and keep you company.
provide (sb with) A cat would provide 
for ~ I took my mother with me for company.
in sb's ~ He's nervous in the company of his colleagues. 
assembled He glanced round the assembled company. 
keep (= to spend time with) John's mother was worried about the company he kept. 
in ~ Those children don't know how to behave in company. That's not something to say in mixed company. 
expect, have We're expecting company this afternoon. 
favourably, well The city compares favourably with other parts of Brazil.
cannot, do not These mountains do not compare with (= are not nearly as high, impressive, etc. as) the Himalayas. 
with Few things compare with (= are as good as) the joy of cycling on a bright, sunny spring morning. 
be nothing compared to sb/sth I've had some difficulties but they were nothing compared to yours (= they were not nearly as bad as yours). 
battery, freezer, glove, storage Your sunglasses are in the glove compartment. 
be divided into The case is divided into four separate compartments. 
be filled with, feel, have I survived. Someone or something had had compassion on me.
for He was filled with overwhelming love and compassion for his wife.
~ towards I felt no compassion towards her.
with ~ The old people are treated with great compassion. 
with The theory does not seem compatible with his other ideas. 
more than The advantages of the scheme more than compensate for the risks associated with it.
fully, in full People whose health has suffered will be compensated in full.
financially I expect to be compensated financially. 
for The company will compensate you for the losses you have suffered. 
directly Their products compete directly with ours.
internationally, nationally The price must be right in order to compete internationally.
fiercely The big firms are competing fiercely on price. 
can't/cannot Small independent bookshops can't compete with the large stores. 
against He welcomed the chance to compete against professional athletes.
for Animals in the wild have to compete for food.
in He regularly competes in road races.
with We have to compete with several larger companies. 
make sb A year of college had made her more socially competent.
consider sb, regard sb as He was not considered competent to teach seven-year-olds. 
mentally She was mentally competent and she had the capacity to decide for herself.
in She is competent in five languages. 
with Investment in research is needed to keep Britain competitive with countries like Japan. 
far from Teachers are far from complacent about this problem.
alarmingly, dangerously This view seems alarmingly complacent. 
about It is vital that we do not get complacent about this disease. 
have I have a complaint about the food.
bring, file, lodge, make, register, voice He brought a complaint against his former manager. They filed a complaint with the European Commission.
get, have, receive We have had some serious complaints from parents.
deal with, handle, hear, investigate, respond to The tribunal heard complaints against the director.
cause/grounds for complaint The way I was treated gave me no cause for complaint.
common Not being able to sleep at night is a very common complaint.
have, suffer from He has a minor skin complaint. 
perfectly The flavours in the dish complement each other perfectly. 
survive The book survives complete only in the second edition of 1533.
make sth You've made my life complete. 
almost, nearly, substantially, virtually The job is almost complete.
near, reach The renovation of the theatre is now nearing completion.
be due for The bridge is due for completion in May. 
after/following ~ Payment will be made following successful completion of the job.
before/prior to ~ The floorboards were replaced prior to completion of the sale.
near ~ The book is near completion.
pending ~ Development of the site has been delayed pending completion of the sewerage scheme.
on/upon ~ of The committee will report back to us on completion of the study. 
castration, guilt, Oedipus, persecution 
develop, get Don't keep on at him about his handwriting or he'll get a complex.
about She has a complex about her big ears. 
full, sheer Only now did he understand the full complexity of the problem.
economic, linguistic, structural, technical the linguistic complexity of Siberia 
convey, highlight, illustrate, reveal It is difficult to convey the sheer complexity of the situation.
be, look, seem, sound It all sounds very complicated.
become, get This is where the story gets complicated. 
~ with She did not suspect him of complicity with the authorities. 
an act of complicity > Note at CRIME(for verbs) 
extremely, highly, very She made some highly complimentary remarks about their school.
common The researchers discovered a common component in all types of the organism.
standard Our software is becoming a standard component of many computer systems.
individual, separate, simple Individual components for the car can be very expensive.
failure Component failure was the cause of the accident.
entirely, exclusively, solely, wholly The committee was composed entirely of specialists.
chiefly, largely, mainly, mostly, overwhelmingly, predominantly, primarily Bones are largely composed of calcium. 
perfectly He was pale but perfectly composed.
overall The overall composition of the Senate was Democrats 57 and Republicans 43.
change, differ Has household composition changed in the last decade? 
by a composition by John Cage
do, write In the exam, you have to do a composition. 
by a composition by the sculptor, Bernt Notke 
chemical Scientists have produced a new chemical compound.
molecular, simple Dalton believed that the simplest compound of two elements must have one atom of each.
form, produce At the right temperature, the chemicals will form a compound. 
walled, secure Police are investigating a raid on a secure compound. 
make sth We changed the wording of the text to make it more comprehensible.
easily, readily The instructions should be easily comprehensible to parents.
barely His French was barely comprehensible. 
to The system is perfectly comprehensible to most people. 
fairly, pretty, quite, reasonably The list is fairly comprehensive.
refuse to He wanted his own way and refused to compromise. 
on Unions and management seem ready to compromise on the level of the pay increase.
with They debated whether to compromise with the opposition parties. 
seriously The affair seriously compromised the party's prospects of electoral success. 
on We are not prepared to compromise on safety standards. 
link, network Computers can be networked using modems and telephone lines.
interface The software allows you to interface your computer and an OCR reader.
hold sth on, store sth on The data is all held on computer. 
hold sth, store sth The computer stores data in a buffer until the printer can accept it.
be down/up The computers are all down (= not functioning) at the moment. 
game, graphics, model A computer model is used to predict forces affecting the aircraft in flight.
time Such a large sorting operation can take up a lot of computer time. 
on (a/the) ~ It's all stored on the computer. 
big The scheme was all a big con. 
consider, discuss, weigh up Before making a decision, you need to weigh up the pros and cons of the situation. 
readily She readily concedes that there is much work still to be done.
grudgingly, reluctantly He reluctantly conceded that he was not fit enough to play in the match. 
be prepared to, be willing to He was not prepared to concede that he had acted illegally.
to The firm should concede a significant salary increase to its employees. 
brilliantly, carefully The plan was brilliantly conceived.
broadly The course is very broadly conceived (= it covers a wide range of topics).
originally The dam project was originally conceived in 1977. 
can't/cannot I cannot conceive why you paid out so much money.
be difficult to, be impossible to It is difficult to conceive of a society without money.
of We conceive of ourselves as individuals. 
naturally She was unable to conceive a child naturally and was offered fertility treatment. 
totally Kate sat up fully, her attention now totally concentrated. 
highly, very The liquid is found in a highly concentrated form. 
disproportionately These jobs are disproportionately concentrated in the service sector.
geographically The immigrant community is strongly concentrated geographically. 
at, in Most of the country's industry is concentrated in the north.
within Childbearing is concentrated within the first decade of married life. 
broad, general, overall, wider ‘Mental handicap’ should be replaced with the broader concept of ‘learning difficulties’.
entire, whole The whole concept of responsibility was alien to him.
ambiguous, elusive, nebulous, vague The concept of ‘adequate medical care’ is too vague.
have Teachers should have a clear concept of what a multiracial society is.
grasp, understand She finds it difficult to grasp abstract concepts.
of He formulated the concept of imaginary time. 
feel He felt some concern for her safety.
cause The lack of firefighting equipment has caused concern. 
in sb's ~ She forgot her own worries in her concern for him.
~ about/over She expressed her deep concern about conditions at the factory.
~ for Out of concern for her health, we suggested she take a week off work. 
be of (no) concern to sb Increased use of drugs is of great concern to parents.
(a) cause for concern The president's health is giving serious cause for concern.
a lack of concern I was surprised by her lack of concern.
a matter of concern Stress at work is a matter of concern to staff and management. 
chief, main, major, overriding, paramount, primary What are your main concerns as a writer?
be none of sb's concern How much we paid is none of your concern. 
(not) unduly She was not unduly concerned by the prospect of managing on her own.
about/at/by/over Doctors are concerned at the prospect of heart patients having to wait up to a year for surgery.
for We are now deeply concerned for his safety. 
centrally, chiefly, essentially, largely, mainly, mostly, predominantly, primarily, principally Mathematics is concerned essentially with understanding abstract concepts.
with Social anthropology is centrally concerned with the diversity of culture. 
D major, B minor, etc. 
for a concerto for clarinet and orchestra > Special page at MUSIC 
arrive at, come to, draw, reach I can't draw any conclusions from what she said.
jump to, leap to We don't want to jump to the wrong conclusion. Don't go jumping to conclusions before you know the facts.
lead to, point to It all points to the conclusion that nobody knew what was going on. 
foregone The result of the match was a foregone conclusion.
bring about, bring sth to The meeting was brought to a hasty conclusion.
in ~ In conclusion, I would like to thank you all for your hard work. > Special page at MEETING 
set sth in The pathway is formed from large pebbles set in concrete. (figurative) I do not regard the constitution of the United Kingdom as set in concrete. 
set Before the concrete sets the surface can be given a final smoothing over. 
with ~ He was carried off the field with slight concussion. 
official, public There's been no official condemnation of the bombing. 
express, issue I can only express my strong condemnation of this dreadful behaviour. The United Nations issued a condemnation of the regime.
draw The violence has drawn firm condemnation from all the main political leaders. 
come from sb/sth Condemnation of this policy has come from all political parties. 
convey, express, extend, offer (sb), send (sb) We would like to take this opportunity to convey our heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims.
accept Please accept our sincere condolences. 
cannot/could not We cannot condone violence of any sort. 
good The prisoner was released early for good conduct.
business, professional The business conduct of this bank will be subject to UK rules. Our organization sets high standards of professional conduct.
human It is tempting to think of morality as a guide to human conduct. 
engage in The committee concluded that the senators had engaged in improper conduct.
regulate Efforts were made to regulate the conduct of crowds at football games.
explain The minister was called to court to explain his conduct. 
by The violent conduct by the strikers was condemned.
proper The elders were responsible for the proper conduct of community life.
of/with the principal conductor of the Berlin Symphony Orchestra 
the conductor's baton > Note at JOB 
bring sb together The conference brought together historians working in a variety of fields.
be entitled sth a conference entitled ‘Strategies for Epidemic Control’
hear sth The conference heard an appeal from a representative from one of the more deprived areas.
agree sth, decide sth, vote sth The conference agreed to adopt a set of compromise proposals.
adopt sth, approve sth, back sth, support sth The conference adopted a resolution on minority rights.
platform The party leader made a morale-boosting speech from the conference platform.
at a/the ~ We met at an international conference.
in ~ with He was in conference with (= in a meeting with) his lawyers all day.
~ about Few reporters turned up to his press conference about low pay.
~ with Management had a joint conference with the union. 
honest, true It's difficult to believe it's an honest confession after all her lies.
extract, get, obtain, secure He claims his confession was extracted under torture.
retract She made a false confession during the trial which she later retracted.
exclude The court excluded the confession wrongly obtained by the police. 
force/get a confession out of sb The police forced a confession out of him. 
made The government made open confession of its inability to cope with the crisis. 
have a confession to make I have a confession to make. I read your private emails. 
go to I used to go to confession every Saturday as a child.
hear The priest heard her confession and granted absolution. 
absolute, complete, full, total The company needs the full confidence of its investors.
great, high, real Confidence is high among the team's supporters.
misplaced The general's confidence in his army proved misplaced.
enjoy, feel, have This government no longer enjoys the confidence of the public. We all have complete confidence in this product.
express He expressed confidence in the new plans.
share She wished that she shared his confidence.
bolster, boost, build (up), enhance, improve, increase, lift, raise Higher profits should raise business confidence.
command, create, develop, encourage, engender, generate, give (sb), inspire, instil The training is designed to give staff confidence in managing problems. The company's record does not really inspire confidence.
rebuild, restore, revive Only if the chairperson resigns will we be able to restore the confidence of our members.
lose This government has lost the confidence of the public.
damage, dent, sap, shake, undermine, weaken Only one bank scandal is needed to shake the confidence in the financial markets.
return Confidence has returned to the market. 
about The captain was not lacking in confidence about his team's prospects.
~ in They have no confidence in the legal system. 
a crisis of confidence There is a crisis of confidence in the university about its future role.
have every/little/no/some confidence The captain of the football team said he had every confidence in his men.
a lack of confidence, a loss of confidence, a vote of (no) confidence This is a tremendous vote of confidence for the government.
a (no) confidence motion/vote The government lost a parliamentary confidence vote. 
easy She spoke in a tone of easy confidence.
false All his false confidence had drained away.
have She has very little confidence in her own abilities.
feel ‘I can explain,’ he said, with a confidence he did not feel.
brim with, exude, be full of, ooze, radiate Since she got the new job, she's been brimming with confidence. a man who exudes confidence
be lacking in, lack A lot of children are lacking in confidence.
acquire, develop, gain, gather She's gained a lot of confidence over the last year.
grow in As the weeks went by he grew in confidence.
lose During his illness he really lost his confidence.
get back, rebuild, recover, regain, restore He's really striking the ball well and has got his confidence back.
bolster, boost, build (up), enhance Winning the competition really boosted her confidence.
dent, sap, shake, undermine, weaken Failing his exams really dented his confidence.
drain (away), evaporate, go My confidence went completely after my first major defeat.
grow, increase, rise Their confidence grew with each success.
boost, booster The home side badly need a confidence booster.
building Getting the certificate does a lot in terms of confidence building. 
with ~ She answered the question with confidence.
~ about I lacked confidence about how I looked
enjoy, have The Cabinet must enjoy the confidence of Parliament.
place, put Are we to place confidence in a minister who cannot remember a phone call he made last week?
he thought she might take Leo into her confidence. 
in ~ She told me in confidence?I couldn't break that confidence, could I? 
a breach of confidence Telling other people what I'd said was a total breach of confidence.
in strict confidence Enquiries will be dealt with in the strictest confidence. 
exchange, share The girls exchanged whispered confidences.
betray I could never forgive Mike for betraying a confidence.
encourage, invite She didn't encourage confidences. 
keep sth, treat sth as The affair must be kept confidential. Information about prices is to be treated as confidential. 
absolutely, completely, strictly, totally The findings are strictly confidential.
entirely, exclusively, solely, strictly, totally Reliance on state funding is not confined solely to industry.
largely, mainly, principally The discussion will be confined largel to general principles.
by no means, not necessarily Poverty and deprivation are by no means confined to the north of the country. 
to Let's confine our attention to the problem of illegal drugs. 
leave It took him some effort to leave the comfy confines of his armchair. 
beyond/outside the ~ of She wanted to experience things outside the close confines of family life.
in/within the ~ of He spent three years within the narrow confines of the prison. 
seek The police are seeking independent confirmation of certain details of the story.
come Written confirmation came three days later. 
in ~ She nodded in confirmation. 
confirmation in writing We need confirmation in writing before we can send your order out. 
with His opinions conflicted with mine. 
achieve, bring sth into, ensure to bring national laws into conformity with European laws 
in ~ with The procedure is in strict conformity with standard international practices.
~ with We work to ensure conformity with the customer's wishes. 
full-scale, major, serious Their demands could lead to a serious confrontation with management.
bring sb into His actions brought him into direct confrontation with the authorities.
~ over She had a series of heated confrontations with her parents over homework.
become, get He was beginning to get rather confused.
leave sb He left his audience thoroughly confused. 
momentarily George paused, momentarily confused. 
about He was very confused about his feelings.
by I'm confused by the whole thing. 
add to This latest decision has only added to the general confusion.
plunge sb/sth into, throw sb/sth into The local council has been thrown into total confusion by her resignation. 
arise, reign Confusion reigned when the two managers gave conflicting instructions.
surround sth The government needs to clear up the confusion surrounding its policy on water. 
in (the) ~ She stared at them both in utter confusion. In the confusion that followed, she managed to slip away unnoticed.
~ about/over There is widespread confusion about the government's transport policy.
~ among The announcement caused a lot of confusion among the students.
a scene/state of confusion, to avoid confusion To avoid confusion, label each box clearly. 
road, traffic Parking near the school causes severe traffic congestion.
avoid, ease, reduce, relieve measures to ease the increasing congestion in the centre of London
must, wish to, would like to I must congratulate you on your excellent exam results. 
for The employees should be congratulated for the part they have played in the success.
on She congratulated me warmly on my performance. 
sb is to be congratulated The company is to be congratulated on its success. 
address The vicar stood up to address the congregation. 
pure Whether the business will survive another ten years is pure conjecture. 
about/as to There was a lot of conjecture as to the extent of her wealth. 
a matter for conjecture, open to conjecture Whether she will run for a second term in office is open to conjecture. 
directly Downstairs toilets were connected directly to the drains.
up We need to connect all the pipes up to the water tank. 
to Connect the machine to the power supply.
with A corridor connects his office with the main building. 
closely, intimately Bad diet is closely connected with many common illnesses.
with The police were looking for evidence to connect him with the crime. 
great, real Only the real connoisseur could tell the difference between these two wines.
of a great connoisseur of Japanese art 
rapid the rapid conquest of Madrid
Norman, Roman, Spanish, etc. the Roman conquest of Britain
make The army made many conquests in the east.
by/through ~ He continued to expand his kingdom by conquest. 
acutely, deeply (formal), extremely, highly, intensely, terribly, very She became acutely conscious that someone was watching her. We are now deeply conscious of these issues.
hardly I was hardly conscious of my surroundings.
dimly, vaguely He fell, and was dimly conscious of Tara standing over him.
painfully All the time he was painfully conscious of how hard it was going to be to explain.
environmentally, politically, socially The company is extremely environmentally conscious (= aware of environmental problems and how to deal with them). 
of I am very conscious of the need for secrecy. 
remain She remained conscious throughout the operation. 
fully The patient is not yet fully conscious.
barely, hardly One man was so drunk as to be barely conscious.
half I was only half conscious. 
avoid He injured himself to avoid conscription. 
tacit Your silence implies tacit consent to these proposals.
informed Doctors must obtain the informed consent of all patients before giving any treatment.
prior No action can be taken without the prior consent of the owner.
give (sb), grant (sb) You must give written consent before the documents can be released.
gain, get, have, obtain Do you have the consent of your employer?
by (common/general/mutual) ~ The contract can only be broken by mutual consent.
with/without sb's ~ Your property cannot be sold without your consent.
~ for He gave his consent for treatment.
~ to He withheld his consent to the marriage. 
have, lead to The practice had far-reaching environmental consequences.
accept, bear, face (up to), suffer, take You must accept the full consequences of your behaviour. 
as a ~ Hundreds of people lost their jobs as a direct consequence of the merger.
in ~ (of) (formal) The child was born deformed in consequence of an injury to its mother.
~ for This could have serious consequences for the economy. 
inherent, innate, natural the innate conservatism of British businessmen
back-bench disagreement among back-bench Conservatives
senior Senior Conservatives are opposed to the change.
give sth, take sth into We will give your proposals serious consideration. You must take the size of the room into consideration.
after ~ After due consideration, it was decided not to offer her the job.
for sb's ~ I enclose the report for your consideration.
in ~ of (formal) (= as payment for sth), on ~ On consideration, we have decided not to come.
have Have some consideration for those without a job.
show sb, treat sb with She showed little consideration for the beginners. 
out of ~ He did it out of consideration for his daughter.
take account of, take into account There are several important safety considerations that must be taken into account. 
show He has shown remarkable consistency in his exam results.
dropping Add milk to produce a soft dropping consistency.
correct, right Knead the dough to the right consistency. 
have The mixture should have the consistency of thick cream.
have She had the consolation of coming second in her last race of the day.
seek He went to seek consolation in the local pub.
draw, find, gain, take He drew little consolation from this fact. When her mother died, she found consolation in her religious beliefs. Although we lost the game, we took some consolation from the fact that we played well.
afford (sb), bring (sb), offer (sb), provide (sb with) The next match will probably offer them the consolation of winning. 
for providing consolation for her loss There is some consolation for fans because the team still stands a chance of winning the local championship.
~ to The children were a great consolation to me at that time. 
be (of) little/small/some consolation to sb This news was of little consolation to us.
if it is any consolation (to sb) If it's any consolation to you, the weather here is also awful.
sb's one/only consolation When she lost her job, her only consolation was that she had some savings in the bank. 
be involved in, be part of I suspected that he was involved in the conspiracy. This action was part of a conspiracy to deceive the public.
organize Who organized the conspiracy against the president?
uncover Party officials have uncovered a conspiracy to discredit the prime minister. 
a conspiracy of silence There is a conspiracy of silence about the killer (= nobody will say what they know). > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
remain, stay The level of unemployment remains fairly constant at around 10%.
hold sth (technical), keep sth All variables except one must be held constant. The temperature must be kept constant. 
across These figures were virtually constant across the 1991 and 2001 censuses. 
marginal (= won or lost by only a small number of votes) The Tories are concentrating their campaign in the key marginal constituencies.
multi-member, single-member Japan's electoral system of multi-member constituencies 
be elected for/to, represent She was elected to a rural constituency. He represents a constituency in the north of England. 
MP 
natural, traditional These people are Labour's natural constituency.
appeal to The party needs to appeal to a broader constituency. 
severely, tightly She felt tightly constrained by her family commitments. 
basic, simple It has a basic construction of brick under a tiled roof.
careful The drainage system needs careful construction.
bridge, building, canal, house/housing, railway, road Road and bridge construction is underway. 
complete Construction of the new road has now been completed. 
during (the) ~ Major engineering challenges will be faced during construction.
under ~ A new factory is under construction. 
proper, true ruling on the proper construction to be given to section 78 of the Act
give sth, put on sth What construction do you put on this letter (= what do you think it means)? 
act as He was happy to act as a consultant to the company.
bring in, employ (sb as), engage (sb as), hire (sb as), use We brought in a management consultant to sort out the mess. 
~ to/with They work as consultants to a software company. > Note at JOB 
hospital, NHS She is now a hospital consultant. 
in a consultant in psychiatry > Note at DOCTOR 
big, great, large The UK is the biggest consumer of tropical hardwoods after Japan.
passive Mass culture turns audiences into passive consumers, their participation limited to the choice between buying and not buying.
green Green consumers should be wary of manufacturers' claims that their products are environmentally friendly.
protect What can be done to protect the ordinary consumer from unscrupulous service operators?
group, organization, watchdog Consumer watchdogs have accused banks of ‘appalling arrogance’ in the way they treat customers.
society We are living in a consumer society.
boom Government policy encouraged a consumer boom followed by a deep recession.
boycott The country could face a consumer boycott of its beef exports. 
by email, by phone/telephone He can be contacted by phone on the telephone number given below. 
do not hesitate to contact sb Please do not hesitate to contact me if you have any questions. 
durable Store food in durable containers with lids.
ideal, suitable, useful Tubes are the ideal container for paint as air is excluded.
fill Fill the container with water.
in a/the ~ Keep the seeds in an airtight container.
cross- Chopping boards can be a source of cross-contamination.
level There is already a high level of environmental contamination. 
by Always keep food covered to prevent contamination by flies.
~ from There is a danger of serious contamination from radioactive waste.
~ with Wash everything thoroughly to avoid contamination with bacteria. 
be deep in, be lost in She was lost in contemplation of the scene in front of her. 
in ~ (of) He spent many hours in deep contemplation.
healthy She'd developed what she considered a healthy contempt for authority.
feel, have, hold sb/sth in He felt nothing but contempt for them. Politicians seem to be generally held in contempt by the police.
betray, demonstrate, display, show His remarks betray an utter contempt for the truth (= are completely false).
deserve I shall treat that suggestion with the contempt it deserves. 
for He has a deep contempt for racists.
beneath ~ His treatment of his children is beneath contempt (= so bad it is not even worth feeling contempt for).
with ~ She looked at him with barely disguised contempt. 
be held in She was held in contempt for refusing to testify. 
empty She emptied the contents of her bag on the floor 
main Her main contention is that staff should get better training. 
support There is no evidence to support her contention.
between There is no contention between the two groups. 
an area of contention, a bone/point/source of contention Where to go on holiday is always a bone of contention in our family. 
deep, quiet, real, true He gazed out to sea, with a feeling of deep contentment. 
find They finally found contentment in living a simple life. 
with ~ She sighed with contentment. 
bitterly, fiercely, hotly, keenly The election was bitterly contested.
fiercely, hotly, strongly, vigorously His views on evolution are strongly contested by other scientists.
successfully, unsuccessfully Defence lawyers successfully contested the case. 
ntarctic, Australian, African, etc. 
cross the first railway to cross the North American continent 
drift The evidence that the continents have drifted is overwhelming. 
across a/the ~ He travelled across continents in his quest for adventure.
on the ~ Wolves are still found on the continent of Europe. 
see The years 2000?01 saw the continuation of the university's planned expansion.
be seen as His research could be seen as a natural continuation of the work done by Professor Lang. 
practise, use A lot of couples now practise contraception. They never used any contraception. 
void The contract was declared void.
have Many workers do not have written contracts.
bid for, tender for Eighteen companies are bidding for the contract.
lose The firm lost the contract to a large London company.
negotiate She managed to negotiate a permanent contract with the firm.
conclude, enter into, make, sign He entered into a contract with his former employer.
cancel, end, repudiate (law), rescind (law), terminate Either party can terminate the contract at any time.
be subject to The offer has been accepted, subject to contract (= the agreement is not legally binding before contracts are signed).
be in breach of, break, violate If you go on strike you will be in breach of contract.
exchange (law) When a house is auctioned the successful bidder must exchange contracts immediately and pay a deposit. 
expire The contract expires at the end of next year.
in a/the ~ They put a clause in the contract stipulating that the work should be finished by next month.
on a ~ He's on a three-year fixed-term contract.
under ~ (to) At that stage of her career she was still under contract to one of the big Hollywood studios.
under a/the ~ Under her contract of employment, Mrs Lee could not be required to work at a different site.
~ for They won a contract for the delivery of five fighter planes.
~ with Do you have a contract with your employer? 
a) breach of contract The company is being sued for breach of contract.
a contract of employment/sale You should make sure that you have a formal contract of employment.
the terms of a contract By using cheaper materials, the 
have out He has a contract out on you. 
on She took out a contract on her ex-husband. 
clearly, completely, directly, flatly John's account of the event directly contradicts Stephen's. 
completely, directly, totally The evidence is completely contradictory.
internally The argument is internally contradictory (= contradicts itself).
mutually The evidence demonstrates how easily people can hold mutually contradictory beliefs. 
to He did something contradictory to his orders. 
clear, marked, sharp, stark, startling, striking, strong There is a stark contrast between the lives of the rich and those of the poor.
make, offer, provide The fresh fruit provides a contrast to the rich chocolate pudding. 
by ~ When you look at their new system, ours seems very old-fashioned by contrast.
in ~ (to/with) The company lost $13 million this year, in contrast with a profit of $15 million last year.
~ between, ~ in The contrast in appearance between the sisters was striking.
~ to This busy social life was a complete contrast to his old quiet life. 
stand in … contrast to sb/sth Their attitudes towards love and marriage stand in stark contrast to those of their parents. 
enormously, generously, greatly, handsomely, heavily, substantially His research has contributed enormously to our understanding of this disease. Many people contributed generously to the appeal.
to I would like to contribute to the church restoration fund.
towards The company contributed £50,000 towards training costs. 
have little/a lot/much to contribute (to sth) He had very little to contribute to the conversation. 
greatly, largely, significantly, substantially Parental involvement contributes significantly to children's learning.
actively, directly Unemployment contributes directly to homelessness.
to Several factors might contribute to the development of the disease. 
regularly a talented photographer who contributed regularly to ‘The Face’ 
to Students are encouraged to contribute articles to the university magazine. 
regular The core of regular contributors is essential to the magazine. 
to Carbon dioxide is the largest contributor to the greenhouse effect. 
close, strict Weeds should be kept under strict control.
assume, establish, gain, get, take, win A military junta took control of the country.
keep, maintain, retain She struggled to keep control of her voice.
lose, relinquish He lost control of the car when he swerved to avoid a cyclist.
get out of, go out of The car went out of control on the icy road.
re-establish, regain Enemy forces have now regained control of the area.
give sb/sth The idea is to give councils full control of their own budgets.
exercise, exert Editors do not exercise control over large sections of their newspapers.
bring/get sth under They soon got the situation under control. 
beyond/outside your ~ Parking is outside my control.
in ~ (of) The elected government is back in control.
out of ~ I had this feeling that things were out of control.
under (sb's) ~ Everything is under control The department was under the control of Bryce Thompson.
~ over They have little control over that side of the business. 
circumstances beyond sb's control The event has been cancelled due to circumstances beyond our control. 
air-traffic, arms, birth, budgetary, cost, crowd, gun, pest, pollution, quality, rent, social, stock, traffic The police are experts in crowd control. 
impose, introduce The government has imposed strict controls on new building.
tighten The country has tightened its border controls.
on They have introduced controls on public spending. 
take Once we were in the air, I was allowed to take the controls. 
at the ~s Chief Air Officer Sedley was at the controls of the Boeing 707. 
programme He is the new programme controller for BBC2.
for the company's marketing controller for the north-west > Note at JOB 
lively His views have excited a lively controversy among fellow scientists.
arouse, cause, create, excite, fuel, give rise to, provoke, spark (off), stir up What they are doing is bound to stir up controversy.
be dogged by, be marked by, be riven by, be surrounded by This year's championships have been dogged by controversy.
avoid The prime minister seemed anxious to avoid controversy about these appointments.
run into The network ran into controversy over claims of faked documentary footage.
be no stranger to The MP, who is no stranger to controversy herself, said the scandal could have serious repercussions.
court The singer deliberately courts controversy with his racist and sexist lyrics. 
arise, break out A fierce controversy has broken out over the issue.
rage Controversy is raging over the route of the new motorway.
exist Controversy exists as to how safe these drugs are.
centre on sth The controversy centred on the issue of compensation for the victims.
surround sth Much controversy surrounds the new exam. 
amid ~ The minister has resigned amid continuing controversy over his education proposals.
~ about/concerning/over There has been a lot of controversy over the use of these drugs.
a matter/source/subject of controversy, a storm of controversy The book raised a storm of controversy. 
find sth I find the new system much more convenient. 
mutually We arranged a mutually convenient time to meet.
for Would this be convenient for you? The house is quite convenient for the shops. 
accepted, established, long-standing, old, traditional, well-established It's an established convention that the part of the prince is played by a woman.
polite Her work refuses any concession to polite conventions of ‘good taste’.
cultural, legal, social the rigid social conventions of Victorian Britain
dramatic, fictional, literary, narrative, operatic, poetic The novel refuses to conform to the narrative conventions of 19th century realism.
adhere to, conform to, follow, keep to, observe They followed the Greek convention of pinning gifts of money to the bride's dress.
be bound by, be hidebound by Life with the Leighs was not hidebound by rules or convention.
break (with), cut through, defy, flout She knew that she had broken an important social convention. He had the freedom of spirit to cut through convention. No young politician can afford to flout convention in this way. 
demand sth, dictate sth Convention dictated that dangerous physical action is the part of heroes, not heroines. 
according to/by ~ By convention, the Queen gives the Royal Assent to all measures passed by Parliament. 
a break with convention In a surprising break with convention, she wore a red wedding dress.
Democratic, Republican, etc.
careers, constitutional, party, political A constitutional convention was elected to try to agree on a new form of government. 
address He addressed the annual Republican convention. 
at a/the ~ She was at the Democratic convention. 
European, UN/United Nations, etc.
adopt, ratify, sign Over 60 countries have yet to ratify the climate convention.
adhere to, comply with Most countries have adhered to the convention.
breach This practice breaches the arms convention. 
establish sth The convention established procedures for the transport of toxic waste.
under a/the ~ This is forbidden under the European Convention on Human Rights.
~ between the 1869 convention between Turkey and Persia
~ for the Berne Convention for the Conservation of European Wildlife
~ on the 1951 United Nations Convention on refugees 
lengthy, long We engaged in a long conversation.
casual, everyday, general, informal, normal, ordinary It's not a subject that often crops up in casual conversation.
civilized, polite We sat making polite conversation and feeling rather uncomfortable.
fascinating, good, intelligent, interesting, stimulating He said that television had been the death of good conversation.
proper, real, serious There was no time away from the topic of money. She turned the conversation to her work.
avoid She avoided conversation with the other passengers.
encourage I was courteous but didn't encourage conversation.
take place When did this conversation take place?
continue, proceed The conversation proceeded in French.
flow They all relaxed and conversation flowed freely.
come back/round to, drift, move on (to), switch, turn to, veer back/off The conversation drifted for a proper conversation.
simple When you are struggling with an unfamiliar language, the simplest cinto family chat. The
chance A chance conversation led to a brilliant new career for the young catering student.
desultory, halting, stilted We carried on a rather halting conversation.
one-sided, two-way Think of prayer as a two-way conversation.
adult Young children become quickly bored by adult conversation. 
snatch I overheard snatches of a conversation between two doctors. 
carry on, have, hold, make You can't hold a private conversation there. I tried to make conversation with the three silent people round the table.
begin, draw sb into, engage sb in, fall into, get into, open, start, strike up I got into conversation with one of the directors. He was waiting for her to open the conversation. I was keen to strike up a conversation with him.
be deep in, be engaged in They were deep in conversation and didn't notice the time.
continue, keep up Cara kept up a one-sided conversation.
bring around/round, steer, turn I managed to bring the conversation round to why they were leaving. He tried to steer the conversation conversation moved on to 
during ~ In the Western world it is polite to maintain eye contact during conversation.
in ~ with In the programme tonight we hear Dr Chris Toole in conversation with the artist Mary Witherspoon.
~ about We had a long conversation about old cars.
~ between a conversation between Jane and her parents
~ with I had an interesting conversation with Dick Whortly. 
an attempt at conversation She ignored all my attempts at conversation.
be in close/deep/earnest conversation (with sb) Don was in close conversation with the girl on his right.
a babble/buzz/hum of conversation She could hear him over the buzz of conversation and laughter.
during the course of (the) conversation During the course of conversation, it emerged that Sheila had lived in Nigeria.
keep the conversation going Our hostess did her best to keep the conversation going.
a lull in the conversation, a topic of conversation The main topic of conversation was the big football match. 
Catholic, Jewish, etc. 
gain, make, win an attempt to gain converts to Communism 
from One of the early popes, Clement was a convert from paganism.
~ to a recent convert to Catholicism 
become She became convinced that something was wrong.
half She was still only half convinced.
of He was convinced of her innocence. 
UN/United Nations 
in ~ The ships travelled in convoy.
excellent, good He's a very good cook
amateur, professional She wants to become a professional cook. > Note at JOB 
good, superb, wonderful Her cooking is wonderful.
home I miss my mother's good home cooking.
traditional traditional English cooking
Chinese, Italian, etc. French regional cooking
do Who does most of the cooking in your house? 
during ~ Stir the mixture to prevent the beans sticking to the bottom during cooking.
in ~ I use yogurt quite a lot in cooking. 
down, off He went for a swim to cool off. 
allow sth to, let sth Allow the cake to cool thoroughly before removing it from the tin. 
ask for, call for, demand, seek She called for closer cooperation on drugs control. They are seeking the cooperation of senior medical staff.
enlist, get We are hoping to enlist the cooperation of women's groups.
in ~ with The film was made in cooperation with the Sports Council.
with/without sb's ~ With the cooperation of the public, the police may be able to catch this man.
~ from You will need a bit of cooperation from your family.
~ in We asked for their cooperation in the collection of data.
~ on They offered their cooperation on the project.
~ with We should like to thank you for your cooperation with us. 
a lack of cooperation, a need for cooperation There is a need for greater economic cooperation. 
with We try to coordinate our activities with those of other groups. 
admirably, well She copes very well under pressure.
adequately Will the prison system cope adequately with the increasing numbers of prisoners?
be able/unable to, can/can't She is unable to cope with her increasing workload. He felt that he couldn't cope any longer.
have to She had to cope without any help.
with Some people find unemployment very difficult to cope with. 
cheap, crude, poor It was not the original painting, but a crude copy.
carbon, duplicate, exact, facsimile, identical, perfect, true The twins were carbon copies of each other. It must be certified as a true copy of the original document.
master, original, top Take a photocopy of the master copy.
multiple The photocopier had been set for multiple copies.
back-up Remember to make back-up copies of all your disks.
hard, paper, printed (computing) You will need to supply a hard copy version of all files. 
make, print, run off, take I ran off a couple of copies of the letter.
attach, enclose, send I attach a copy of the report. Please find enclosed a copy of the draft document.
circulate, distribute, supply Copies of the article were circulated to members of the committee.
keep Remember to keep copies of all your correspondence. 
back, old I have a few back copies of the newspaper.
advance Advance copies of the book were sent out to reviewers.
complimentary, free Free copies of the leaflet are available from the Department of the Environment.
bound, hardback, leather-bound, paperback, presentation The candidate must submit two bound copies of his or her thesis.
battered, tattered, well-thumbed my battered copy of Shakespeare's plays
personal Charles I's personal copy of the psalter
sign Author Bob Woodhouse will be signing copies of his new book. 
circulate Even with the new legislation pirate copies will circulate.
knocking (informal) Knocking copy (= writing that just says how bad sb/sth is) is simply lazy journalism. 
edit, prepare, produce, write The subeditors prepare the reporters' copy for the paper.
make This will make great copy for the advertisement. 
date, deadline Copy date (= the date for handing in copy) for the next issue is 1 May. 
have, hold, own The publisher has the copyright on all his books.
breach, infringe By publishing the book, they were guilty of infringing copyright.
be protected by Databases are generally protected by copyright. 
protect sth Copyright protects your work from being commercially exploited by someone else without your consent. 
in ~ The songs remain in copyright.
out of ~ His work is now out of copyright.
~ on The family still holds the copyright on his works. 
breach/infringement of copyright They sued her for breach of copyright.
ownership of copyright Ownership of copyright can be transferred. 
quite Relations between the two governments remained quite cordial. 
hollow Each fibre has a hollow core trapping still air and aiding warmth. (figurative) There was a hollow core of sadness inside me.
central, essential, inner, innermost, very This is seen as the central core of the government's policy. A new spirit welled up from the very core of the nation.
hard A hard core of supporters, mostly teenage girls, gathered at the airport to see the star arrive.
form, make up These ideas formed the core of his philosophy.
get to We want to get to the core of the problem. 
activity, area, course, curriculum, discipline, module, programme, skill, subject the core area of management studies Students study five core subjects.
business, service We need to stop this expansion and concentrate on the core business.
at sth's ~ At the core of our convictions is belief in individual liberty.
to the ~ She was shaken to the core by the news. He's a politician to the core (= in all his attitudes, beliefs and actions). 
rounded Smooth rounded corners make cleaning easier.
awkward Make sure the staircase is well lit, with no awkward corners.
extreme, far, very He parked in the far corner of the car park. 
cupboard, seat, table The waiter led us to a corner table. 
in a/the ~ Put your address in the top right-hand corner of the page. 
street There were a lot of young men hanging about on street corners.
sharp, tight It's a rather sharp corner and she took it a little too fast.
blind I hate coming out of that lane because it's a blind corner. 
round, take, turn As they turned the corner all the parcels slid to one side. 
around/round a/the ~ A white van came round the corner.
at a/the ~ at the corner of West Street and Park Street Turn right at the first corner.
on a/the ~ the shop on the corner of Mount Street 
quiet He found a quiet corner and got on with his work.
little, small, tiny Welcome to our little corner of Surrey.
distant, far, far-flung, remote a remote corner of Afghanistan
dark, gloomy, shadowed, shadowy She sat in a dark corner of the room.
forgotten, hidden, obscure, odd, secret The box had been tucked away in an odd corner of the attic. 
in a/the ~ She tucked herself away in a corner and read all day. 
the corner of your mind (figurative) He pushed the thought back into the darkest corner of his mind. 
tight He was used to having to talk his way out of tight corners. 
get sb/yourself into They had got her in a corner and there was nothing she could do about it. 
be in a bit of a corner I'm in a bit of a corner over finding staff for Friday evening. 
award (sb) The referee awarded a corner.
take Beckham took the corner and Scholes headed it into the net.
force, win He put the goalkeeper under pressure and managed to force a corner.
concede James blocked the shot but conceded a corner.
elite the elite corps of the Sultan's army
multinational a multinational corps under UK command
media, press the UN press corps 
in a/the ~ He's in the Royal Army Medical Corps. 
be, prove, seem His first idea proved correct. 
absolutely, completely, entirely, perfectly, quite What you say is perfectly correct, but it gives the wrong impression.
not entirely, not strictly He is not entirely correct in his assumptions.
basically, broadly, essentially, fundamentally, largely, more or less, substantially His estimate has turned out to be more or less correct.
demonstrably None of the explanations offered is demonstrably correct?or demonstrably incorrect.
ideologically, politically (sometimes disapproving) (= avoiding language or behaviour that may offend some groups of people) He was an interesting speaker, if not always politically correct in his views.
anatomically, botanically, factually, grammatically The flower drawings are all to scale and botanically correct. 
in The diagram is correct in every detail. I think I am correct in saying that this project is the first of its kind in this country. 
grammatical, ideological, political (sometimes disapproving) Political correctness is the principle of avoiding language or behaviour that may offend certain groups of people. 
doubt, question She doubted the correctness of the information.
be convinced of She was convinced of the correctness of the decision.
direct, simple There is a direct correlation between exposure to sun and skin cancer.
have The second group of measurements had a high correlation with the first.
discover, establish, find, observe, show The study showed a significant correlation between the baby's sleeping position and the risk of cot death. 
exist A strong correlation exists between the fatness of parents and their children. 
lively a lively correspondence in ‘The Times’ about ways of preparing tripe 
item Numerous items of correspondence have been received on this subject.
pile He was leafing through piles of correspondence. 
enter into, have It would be foolish for a doctor to enter into correspondence with a patient. I have had correspondence with the company director on this matter.
carry on, keep up We kept up a correspondence for many months.
send Please send correspondence to ‘Letters to the Editor, Model Railway Journal’.
answer, deal with, handle The secretary deals with all the correspondence.
catch up on I would spend the time reading or catching up on my correspondence.
intercept The department intercepted the correspondence of foreign diplomats. 
column the correspondence columns of the ‘London Review of Books’
course I did a correspondence course in economics. 
by/through ~ All our business is conducted by correspondence.
in ~ with I have been in correspondence with the manager of the store.
~ between I have seen the correspondence between the company and the local authority.
~ from The editor welcomes correspondence from readers on any subject.
~ with copies of his correspondence with the Queen 
direct, exact, one-to-one The child can see the one-to-one correspondence of the buttons and buttonholes.
land, peace (both figurative) UN troops will secure the land corridor so that food supplies can reach the trapped civilians. 
line Portraits line the corridors of the palace. 
lead Narrow corridors lead off from the main hallway.
run along/down sth The corridor runs down the middle of the building.
link sth The corridor links the old part of the hospital with the new. 
along a/the ~, at/to the end of a/the ~, down a/the ~ The office is just down the corridor on the left.
in a/the ~ I put my head down as I passed him in the corridor. 
the corridors of power (figurative) She was a minister with considerable influence in the corridors of power.
a labyrinth/maze of corridors She led us through a maze of hotel corridors to our room. 
thoroughly, totally The whole regime is thoroughly corrupt.
merely, purely Opponents described the reforms as a purely cosmetic exercise.
fully, properly The project has not been properly costed yet. 
at The programme was costed at £6 million. 
full For the dress rehearsal, the cast will be in full costume.
eighteenth-century, Victorian, etc.
be dressed in, dress in, have on, wear He had a cowboy costume on. 
drama The film is a costume drama based on a 19th-century novel.
change The main character had five costume changes. 
in ~ The battle was re-enacted by actors in period costume. 
pure a pure cotton T-shirt
little, polite, slight The butler gave a little cough to announce his presence.
smoker's He had a smoker's cough and nicotine-yellowed fingers. 
give He gave a slight, apologetic cough and said, ‘Excuse me.’
medicine, mixture, sweet > Special page at ILLNESS 
control Many county councils are now controlled by the Conservatives.
apply to Students should apply to their local council for a grant. 
on a/the ~ She's on the borough council. 
a seat on a council Our party won the majority of seats on the city councils. 
apply to As a struggling young composer she applied to the Scottish Arts Council for a grant. 
award sb sth, give sb sth In Britain, the Arts Council gives grants to theatres. 
for setting up a new council for the arts > Note at ORGANIZATION 
accept, follow, get, listen to, take Listen to the counsel of your elders. 
prevail In the end, wiser counsels prevailed. 
on He is there to give you counsel on all matters. 
legal They were denied legal counsel or the right to call witnesses in their defence.
leading The accused was represented by a leading counsel.
Crown, prosecuting/prosecution The witness was cross-examined by the prosecuting counsel.
King's/Queen's 
brief, instruct My solicitor will brief the senior counsel. 
argue sth, claim sth, say sth, state sth, submit sth His counsel argued that he had not intended to harm the women. 
see, talk to He talked to a counsellor about his marriage difficulties. > Note at JOB 
serve at/behind, work at/behind Mary served behind the counter at Bacon's for a few hours a week.
wipe (down) The barman wiped down the counter in silence. 
across a/the~ He pushed the money across the counter to her.
at/behind a/the ~ The assistant behind the counter gave a curt nod.
to The government's programme should be an effective counter to unemployment. 
female, male Women soldiers will join their male counterparts at the army base.
British, French, etc. 
have British environmentalists have their counterparts in Europe. 
native The feel for his native countryside comes through strongly in his photographs.
English, Kent, etc. 
destroy, ravage, ruin, spoil The countryside has been ravaged by pollution.
roam, wander (around/through) In the afternoons they roamed the countryside roundabout. 
~ around the countryside around Oxford 
palace, presidential He deposed his father in a palace coup in 1970.
boardroom She lost her position in a boardroom coup (= a sudden change of power among senior managers in a company). 
foil, put down The coup was immediately put down and the plotters were shot.
come to power in, seize power in He seized power in a military coup 
big, brilliant, great, major, real, spectacular Winning that contract was her greatest coup.
pull off He managed to pull off a major diplomatic coup. 
valid This coupon is valid until 31 January.
entry To enter the competition, fill in the entry coupon on page 6.
collect, save She had saved enough coupons to get a free flight.
post, return, send (off) Cut out and return this coupon to claim your free holiday. 
degree, diploma, honours a joint honours course in French and Russian
do, take He took a crash course in Italian.
withdraw from She withdrew from the course because of illness.
offer, run The school runs courses all year round.
complete It took him five years to complete the course.
run The course runs from 10?15 May. 
alter, change The boat altered course during the storm.
chart, plot, set We set course for Malta.
follow The path follows the course of the river. 
off ~ We're a long way off course
on ~ We're on course for our destination. 
on a collision course The two planes were on a collision course. 
adopt, follow, pursue, take It was the best course of action to take in the circumstances. 
be open to sb It was the only course open to him. 
follow, run, take Her career followed a similar course to her sister's. We could do nothing but let the disease run its course. 
in the ~ of In the course of time, I began to understand. 
the course of history This was an event that changed the course of history.
in due course (= at the appropriate time; eventually), in the normal/ordinary course of events In the normal course of events, you should get a reply by Monday.
let nature take its course When the dog responded so badly to the treatment, we decided to let nature take its course (= stop treating it and let it die naturally). 
for a/the ~ We had chicken for our main course. 
complete Only ten yachts completed the course. 
give sb, put sb on She's been put on a course of injections.
high This is the highest court in the land.
appeal, civil, crown, high, juvenile, magistrates, military They took their case to the appeal court.
European, French, etc. 
go to, take sb/sth to We are prepared to go to court to get our compensation. Their neighbours took them to court.
come to, get to, go to The case should not be allowed to go to court.
bring sth to There wasn't enough evidence to bring the case to court.
settle sth out of The dispute was settled out of court.
a court of appeal The case will be heard by the court of appeal next month.
a court of law I don't think that argument would stand up in a court of law.
a ward of court The child was made a ward of court when her parents were jailed. 
clay, grass, hard Do you prefer playing tennis on grass courts or hard courts? 
off (the) ~ Off court she is just as aggressive as she is on the court.
on (the) ~ The players have been on court for an hour. 
royal appear before, appear in, attend She is too young to appear before the court. 
circles Mozart quickly became a favourite in court circles. preside over The court was presided over by Judge Owen. life at court He will appear in court tomorrow charged with the murder.
at (a/the) ~ life at the court of Charles I 
hear sth The court heard how the mother had beaten the 11-year-old boy.
acquit sb, clear sb The court acquitted Reece of the murder of his wife.
dismiss sth, quash sth The court dismissed the appeal. The guilty verdict was 
injunction, order, summons She tried to get a court order to prevent him from coming near her. He received a court summons for non-payment of tax.
appearance Divorce no longer requires a court appearance.
battle They could now face a court battle for compensation.
bailiff, clerk, judge, official, registrar, staff, usher She was appointed a high court judge in 1998.
at ~ He was found guilty at Swindon Crown Court.
before a/the ~ The case is now before the court.
in ~ Relatives of the dead girl were in court. 
contempt of court He was charged with contempt of court after shouting at a witness.
always, invariably, unfailingly She was unfailingly courteous and helpful.
to He was perfectly courteous to me. 
brief, whirlwind After a whirlwind courtship, they married and went to live in Bath. 
conduct Because of the war they were obliged to conduct their courtship by post. 
during a/the ~ They went there together during their courtship. 
close (figurative) These pigs are close cousins of the wild hog.
long-lost Completely out of the blue, she got a letter from her long-lost cousin in New York. 
cousin once, twice, etc. removed She's my first cousin once removed (= the daughter of my cousin). 
up She used dried leaves and twigs to cover up the hole. 
try to She tried to cover her face with her hands. (figurative) He tried to cover his embarrassment by starting to rub his hands together.
with He covered the body with a cloth. 
in The cars were all covered in snow.
with The children were completely covered with mud. 
barely, hardly The payments he gets barely cover his expenses. 
be extended to VAT may be extended to cover books. 
against This policy should cover you against accidental injury.
leave sb/sth The car sped past, leaving us covered in mud. 
well Make sure all cooked meat is well covered.
by Each body was covered by a blanket.
in I was covered in blood.
with The path was now completely covered with thick snow. 
covered from head to foot/toe He crawled out, covered from head to foot in soot. 
calve The cow had difficulties calving. 
moral It is an act of moral cowardice for a society to neglect its poor. 
an act of cowardice, cowardice in the face of the enemy Any soldier displaying cowardice in the face of the enemy was shot. 
run A fine crack ran up the wall. 
fill We filled the cracks in the plaster before hanging the wallpaper. 
appear Wide cracks appeared in the ground during the drought.
in There's a crack in the fence big enough to look through. 
open a door/window a crack Could you open the window just a crack? 
give, let out He gave a crack of laughter.
with a ~ The chandelier hit the floor with a crack.
the crack of a whip, a crack of thunder > Note at SOUND 
call for, demand, order The government has ordered a crackdown on truancy.
on They're having a crackdown on private phone calls from the office. 
skilled Sheep shearing is a highly skilled craft.
practise The men practised various traditional crafts, such as carving toys out of bone. 
art and craft Subjects taught include art and craft, drama, languages and maths.
arts and crafts The gallery has major exhibitions of arts and crafts. 
learn, master, perfect It took her years to perfect her craft. 
exquisite, fine, skilled, superb We admired the superb craftsmanship of the furniture. 
sickening, terrible There was a sickening crash as her head hit the ground. 
with a ~ The plates fell to the floor with an almighty crash.
claim sth The crash claimed three lives. 
in a/the ~ He was killed in a train crash. 
deep, gaping, huge, large The blast blew a gaping crater in the road.
the edge/lip/side of a crater We peered over the lip of the crater into the volcano. 
at a ~ The traffic was moving at a slow crawl. 
be down to The traffic on the motorway was down to a crawl.
colour sth in with, draw (sth) with, use She coloured the picture in with crayons. 
in ~ The notice was written in crayon. 
go I'd go crazy if I lived here.
drive sb The group's performance always drives the audience crazy. 
with We were crazy with excitement. 
drive sb The kids would answer back, and that drove her crazy. 
at He was crazy at me for letting the goal in. 
under The chair creaked under his weight. 
creak and groan The ice creaked and groaned underfoot.
creak open The door creaked open an inch. 
be, look, seem, taste Stir the mixture until it looks creamy. It tastes deliciously creamy. 
badly, easily This material creases very easily.
a bit, slightly His shirt had creased a bit in the suitcase. 
be/get creased Her clothes were badly creased. 
be, feel I don't always feel creative.
living All living creatures need food.
social Dogs are more social creatures than cats.
woodland Woodland creatures such as foxes and owls are increasingly common in towns.
little, small, tiny These timid little creatures exude a pungent smell when threatened.
helpless The newborn young are helpless creatures and easy prey for birds.
magnificent It is awesome to see these magnificent creatures in flight.
evil I dreamt of evil creatures who were trying to catch me. 
carry, have The certificate has great credibility in France and Germany.
gain, regain The government is desperate to regain credibility with the public.
establish, give, lend Recommendations from two previous clients helped to establish her credibility. Funding from the World Bank lends credibility to the project.
add, enhance The use of computers adds credibility to the forecasts. BBC backing for the scheme will enhance its credibility.
suffer The prime minister's credibility suffered in his handling of the crisis. 
gap Newspapers were talking of a credibility gap between her policies and her achievements.
problem Athletics' anti-dope campaigners are faced with a credibility problem. 
~ for There is little credibility among scientists for the book's claims. 
valid Your credit card is no longer valid. 
pay by, use We paid by credit card.
accept, take Do you accept credit cards?
put sth on I put the bill on my credit card. 
expire My credit card expires at the end of June. 
details, number Can you give me your credit card number? 
on your ~ He ran up a huge bill on his credit card. 
with The bank credited the oil company with £500,000. 
with I credited you with a little more sense. 
be credited as/with sth She is generally credited as having written over 50 novels.
be credited to sb The work has been credited to a sixteenth century bishop.
be generally/widely credited with sth He is widely credited with having started the Middle East peace process. 
can/could hardly/scarcely I could hardly credit it when she told me she was leaving.
be hard to I find what he says rather hard to credit. 
pay (off), repay They agreed to repay their creditors over a period of three years. 
adopt, embrace Other countries have adopted this political creed enthusiastically.
be, feel, look, seem It feels a bit creepy in here.
get It can get pretty creepy in the cellar at night. 
gain, reach We finally reached the crest of the ridge. 
on a/the ~ We stood on the crest of the hill. 
championship, league, test, World Cup
Sunday
attacking The crowd loves to watch attacking cricket. 
scene This game marks his comeback to the international cricket scene.
memorabilia an auction of cricket memorabilia > Special page at SPORT 
chirp The only sound was a cricket chirping. 
known He has been associating with known criminals.
common She was treated like a common criminal.
war He was tried as a war criminal. 
catch I told him to pass the information to the police so they could catch the criminals. 
for life, permanently As a child she contracted polio and was crippled for life. 
be crippled with He's eighty and crippled with arthritis.
leave sb crippled The disease left him crippled. 
financially The industry has been financially crippled by these policies. 
bag, packet > Special page at FOOD 
bitter, fierce, harsh, hostile, severe, trenchant She is one of her husband's severest critics.
chief, great, leading, major He is now a major critic of the nuclear industry. 
prove wrong She is looking for a chance to prove her critics wrong. 
accuse sb Critics accused the government of giving in to pressure from the tobacco companies.
argue sth, believe sth, claim sth, charge sth, fear sth, point sth out, say sth, suggest sth Critics point out that poverty still exists.
hail sth, praise sth The film was hailed by critics as a triumphant piece of realism.
attack sth, pan sth, slate sth The play was panned by critics.
describe sth Critics described the paintings as worthless rubbish. > Note at JOB 
telling A more telling criticism is that he reduces ethics to interpersonal relationships.
constructive, fair, just, justifiable, legitimate, valid She made a number of valid criticisms.
fresh Two successive defeats have brought fresh criticism.
barrage The film star faced a barrage of criticism for his behaviour. 
direct, express, level, make, voice Criticism was levelled at senior managers.
attract, be open to, be singled out for, come in for, come under, draw, face, get, meet with, prompt, provoke, receive The government came under fierce criticism for its policies. The proposal is open to several important criticisms.
avoid, deflect, escape, forestall, ward off She sought to deflect criticism by blaming her family.
accept, meet, reply to, respond to, take He finds it hard to take criticism.
counter, dismiss, reject She countered my criticisms by saying we had no choice in the matter.
imply None of what has been said should be taken to imply criticism.
come from sb The harshest criticism came from right-wing ideologists.
centre on sth Criticism centred on the lack of information provided. 
about The main criticism about the information provided is that it arrives too late.
~ against criticisms against the European single currency
~ for They received criticism for continuing to supply the faulty goods.
~ from We are bound to face criticism from both sides.
~ of There has been serious criticism of the teaching methods used in the school.
~ over We came in for some sharp criticism over this decision. 
of The book provides a thorough critique of current theories. 
fodder, food, forage Fodder crops are used to feed livestock.
standing Rivers burst their banks and flooded standing crops.
grow, produce Most of the farmers grow arable crops.
damage, destroy Summer flash floods destroyed the crops.
spray Crops are sprayed with highly toxic chemicals to prevent insect damage. 
fail Isolated communities were extremely vulnerable if crops failed. 
rotation Crop rotation helps prevent soil erosion.
early Bring strawberry plants indoors for an early crop.
gather, get, harvest, have, reap a record crop was harvested We had a very good crop of apples last year.
bear, produce, yield It takes three to five years for a new plantation to bear a crop. 
be drawn from The contestants are drawn from a cross section of society.
of We interviewed a wide cross section of people. 
draw, put I've put a cross on the map to show where the hotel is. 
gold, silver, stone, wooden She wore a gold cross on a chain around her neck. The grave was marked with a stone cross.
on the ~ a painting of Jesus Christ on the cross 
make) the sign of the cross The priest blessed her, and made the sign of the cross over her. 
by/from a deep cross from Beckham 
bear, stand up to, withstand His alibi would not have withstood cross-examination. 
during/in ~ He was found to have lied twice in cross-examination.
under ~ The defendant broke down under cross-examination. 
ferry The price includes accommodation and ferry crossing.
Atlantic, Channel, etc. 
make You can only make the crossing in good weather. 
during a/the ~ We discussed our plans during the crossing.
~ from, ~ to a very rough crossing from England to Ireland 
pedestrian, pelican, zebra (These are all places where people walking can cross a road.) 
at a/the ~ They were stopped and searched at the border crossing.
on a/the ~ A passenger train smashed into a truck on a level crossing. 
perch The black crow perched on the telephone pole.
big, bumper, capacity, good, great, huge, large, massive, record, sell-out, vast The show played to capacity crowds.
assembled The president read a declaration to a vast assembled crowd.
jostling, madding, milling, surging We pushed our way through the milling crowds of guests.
attract, draw, pull (in) Boxing is a sport that always attracts large crowds.
break up, disperse Police were called to disperse the crowd.
assemble, collect, gather An expectant crowd gathered outside his house.
grow, swell The crowd grew to over 15,000.
flock, mill, throng Crowds have been flocking to the beaches in this hot weather. A crowd thronged around the wounded man.
disperse, melt away, thin out After the ambulance drove off, the crowd dispersed.
line the street Crowds lined the streets of the city as the president's car approached. 
among a/the ~ A bewildered child was wandering among the crowd.
in a/the ~ I saw some familiar faces in the crowd.
through a/the ~ She fought her way through the crowd.
be one of, follow She's happy to follow the crowd.
stand out from We all like to think we stand out from the crowd (= are different from other people). 
place, put on The crown was placed upon the new monarch's head. 
offer sb In 1688 the crown was offered to William and Mary.
succeed to He succeeded to the crown of Spain 
pass In 1553 the crown passed from Edward VI to Mary. 
the heir to the crown 2 the Crown the state as represented by a king/queen 
land a piece of Crown land 
lose He lost his Olympic crown to George Rice.
at the ~ She swept her hair into a bun at the crown of her head.
on your ~ There were raindrops on his bald crown. 
to I can't stand people who are cruel to animals. 
Caribbean, Mediterranean, world, etc. 
go on, take She used all her savings to go on a world cruise. 
on a/the~ They met on a cruise.
brush (away), sweep (away) She brushed the cake crumbs off the table.
drop, scatter He bit into the roll, scattering crumbs. 
embark on, launch, mount The charity tonight launched its great crusade against homelessness.
be engaged in, carry out, conduct, join She seems to be carrying out a personal crusade to stop this building work.
on a ~ He is on a crusade to take the church to the people.
~ for For 23 years he led a crusade for peace. 
badly His hand was badly crushed in the accident.
finely Crush the biscuits finely before adding them to the mixture.
against She was crushed against the wall.
emotional, psychological (both figurative) He saw religion as a psychological crutch. 
need, use He needs crutches to walk. 
on/with ~ She can only walk with crutches. 
give, let out, raise, utter She gave an agonized cry as they lifted the fallen branch from her leg. He was too weak to raise even the smallest of cries.
go up A cry went up when it was discovered their man had escaped.
escape An involuntary cry escaped her as he entered the room. 
with a ~ He fell to the ground with a cry.
~ for (figurative) Her suicide attempt was really a desperate cry for help.
~ of a cry of despair/delight > Note at SOUND 
have You'll feel better when you've had a good cry. 
gaze into, look into I can't gaze into my crystal ball and tell you what will happen! 
take Her husband took his cue, and said that it was time for them to leave.
give sb She had not yet been given the cue to go on to the stage. 
on ~ I can't just cry on cue!
~ for This was the cue for him to come into the room. 
right on cue Ella came in right on cue, just as they were being rude about her.
take your cue from sb/sth They all took their cue from their leader. 
logical This massive autobiographical work was the logical culmination of her long career. 
mark, represent The show marked the culmination of months of hard work.
reach The space race reached its culmination in the first moon walk.
at the ~ of A decision will be taken at the culmination of the initial research. 
big, chief, main, major, prime, real, worst Keep the kitchen clear of all sources of bacteria, not forgetting the biggest culprit of all?the dishcloth.
hunt Police hunting the culprits have condemned the attack.
intensively The land here has been intensively cultivated for generations. 
successfully Olives have been cultivated successfully in southern Australia. 
actively, assiduously, carefully, deliberately This modern image is actively cultivated by the company.
drain, empty She was so thirsty that she drained her cup.
lift, pick up, raise She raised her cup to her lips.
drink from/out of Customers didn't like drinking out of plastic cups. 
strong I like a good strong cup of tea first thing in the morning.
fresh My coffee was cold, so I ordered a fresh cup. 
pour (sb) I'm making tea. Can I pour you a cup?
stir Enrique stirred his fourth cup of coffee of the day.
drink, sip I drink about ten cups of coffee a day. 
a nice cup of tea You sit down and I'll make you a nice cup of tea. 
European, World, etc. 
win Who won the cup?
present (sb with) The cup will be presented to the winning team by the president himself.
lift He lifted the cup for the sixth time this year (= it was the sixth time he had won). 
competition They were the first Turkish team to win a major cup competition.
clash, match The team are ready for next week's World Cup clash with Italy.
act as Counselling acted as a curb on his violent behaviour. 
on Many companies have imposed curbs on smoking in the workplace. 
effective, instant, miracle, wonder There is no instant cure for this condition.
rest His new job was almost a rest cure after the stresses of the army.
work The cure works by boosting the body's immune system. 
for scientists seeking a cure for Aids
~ from He was hoping for a cure from his debilitating illness. 
no (known) cure There is no known cure for the disease.
prevention is better than cure Prevention is better than cure, so start looking after your heart now.
bring about, effect, provide These drugs can sometimes effect miraculous cures. (figurative) Science cannot provide a cure for all the world's problems. 
declare, impose, order, place sth under A five-day curfew was declared by the government. The whole area has been placed under curfew.
lift The strict curfew has now been lifted.
break, defy Protesters defied the curfew and took to the streets. 
be in force A dusk-to-dawn curfew was in force. 
under ~ The city is still under curfew.
~ on Many people are in favour of a curfew on young people. 
make sb Her secretive manner had made me curious. 
deeply, extremely, intensely, very I was intensely curious to know more about him.
frankly She coped with the frankly curious looks of the men.
idly He saw a book on the table and picked it up, idly curious.
naturally Puppies are naturally curious. 
about I was curious about how she would react.
as to She was curious as to why he was there. 
extremely, very I find it very curious that you did not tell anyone.
a little, rather, slightly, somewhat The wine tasted rather curious. 
up She curled her legs up under her. 
around/round His fingers curled tightly round the steering wheel.
from Smoke was curling up from the chimney.
into The cat curled into a ball and fell asleep. 
be/lie/sit curled up She was lying curled up on her bed.
curl (up) at the edges The photograph was brown and curling at the edges. 
foreign They prefer to be paid in foreign currencies.
common, international US dollars are considered common currency in international transactions.
local You can convert sterling into the local currency.
European, Japanese, etc.
single the single European currency
stable, strong A stable currency means that your savings do not diminish in value
support The fund supports weak currencies.
raise The country needs to raise enough hard currency to pay for its oil imports. 
float, fluctuate For four months all major currencies floated. The system allows currencies to fluctuate within certain limits. 
conversion, exchange, translation The disappointing profits are due to unfavourable currency translations.
markets They make money by speculating on the currency markets.
in … ~ She had £50 in foreign currency. 
enjoy, have This belief has general currency.
gain How did the idea gain currency? > Note at CURRENCY 
narrow Teachers feel that the present curriculum is too narrow.
core Student choose from optional subjects in addition to the core curriculum.
mainstream His disability does not prevent him from following the mainstream curriculum.
English, geography, mathematics, etc.
hidden Children learn many of their attitudes to life from the hidden curriculum at school. 
introduce sth into Film Studies has been introduced into the curriculum as an option.
across the ~ Pupils use computers across the curriculum (= in all or most subjects).
on a/the ~ They all have to study French because it's on the curriculum.
in a/the ~ More room should be given to foreign languages in the curriculum.
areas of the curriculum We cover all areas of the curriculum. 
under a ~ She thought that she must be under a curse.
~ on/upon The witch is supposed to have put a curse on the house. 
insert, move, place, position, put > Special page at COMPUTER 
close, draw, open, pull (across/aside/back/closed) They sat in the dark with the curtains drawn. She pulled back the curtains, and sunlight streamed in. 
hang Heavy red velvet curtains hung either side of the huge window.
billow The curtains billowed madly as the wind caught them. 
behind a/the ~ He took a bag from a shelf behind some curtains. 
close, come down, fall At the end of the play the curtain came down to tremendous applause. 
away, down, up The path curved down towards the village. 
around/round, towards, etc. The road curved away round the back of the hill. 
strain Strain the custard to remove lumps. 
and/with custard some apple pie and custard > Special page at FOOD 
follow, observe, respect They still follow the custom of pinning money to the bride's dress.
die out, disappear The custom died out in the nineteenth century.
prevail, survive These customs still prevail in remote areas. 
according to a/the ~, in accordance with (a/the) ~ They poured wine round the trees in accordance with local custom.
through ~ The rules have grown up through custom and are not laid down by law.
as is/was the custom People threw coins onto the stage, as was the custom. 
rench, UK, etc. 
clear, go through We cleared customs by five o'clock. You will have to declare these goods when you go through customs.
wave sb through We were waved through customs without a pause. 
control/controls, regulations the removal of European customs controls
duty/duties We had to pay customs duties on the beer.
declaration, document, documentation, form We had to fill out customs forms on the plane.
clearance We were waiting for the goods to receive customs clearance. 
at ~ We got stopped and searched at the Italian customs.
thick Make sure you cut the bread nice and thick.
cleanly Cut the stem cleanly, just beneath a leaf joint.
easily Sandstone cuts easily.
crossways, lengthways Cut the courgette in half lengthways.
from They cut away all the dead branches from the tree.
into She picked up the knife and cut into the meat. He cut the bread into thin slices.
through I can't cut through this wood. 
cut and paste (computing) You can cut and paste between different programs.
cut sb/sth free Two survivors were cut free after being trapped for twenty minutes.
cut sth into pieces Cut the cake into six pieces.
cut sth in half/two She cut the loaf in two and gave me one of the halves.
cut sth open She fell and cut her head open. 
short His career was cut short by injury. 
manage to We have managed to cut our costs quite drastically.
by The department has to cut its spending by 30%.
from, to The price has been cut from £250 to £175. PHRASAL VERBS cut back 
drastically, savagely, severely, significantly Social work services have been cut back drastically. 
on Local authorities have been forced to cut back on expenditure. cut down 
on I'm trying to cut down on fatty foods. cut sb/sth off 
abruptly, suddenly His thoughts were abruptly cut off by a blinding flash of pain. 
from They were completely cut off from the outside world. 
newspaper, press She had kept all the press cuttings about the murder. 
from a cutting from ‘The Guardian’ 
root, take After about four weeks you will be able to see whether the cuttings have taken. 
from a/the ~ These plants are easy to propagate from leaf cuttings.
~ from Take cuttings from mature plants in the spring. 
hit sth, strike sth An exceptionally violent cyclone hit the town last night.
damage sth, destroy sth, devastate sth In 1974 Darwin was devastated by Cyclone Tracy. 
appear, be, feel, seem, sound I hope I don't sound unduly cynical.
about I'm a little cynical about her motives. 
act, talk (both informal) Don't talk daft! 
completely, plain The decision is just plain daft.
breach The dam has been breached and there is a danger of flooding. 
burst The dam burst and the valley was flooded.
hold sth back The dam holds back the water. 
across/on a large hydroelectric dam on the River Danube 
badly, seriously, severely The building was badly damaged by fire.
irreparably, permanently She may have damaged her health irreparably. 
be, feel, look, smell The room smelled damp.
make sth The rain had made the walls damp. 
a bit, a little, quite, rather, slightly Our clothes had got a bit damp. 
dance, do, perform In her delight she got up and did a little dance.
have May I have the next dance? I felt like having a dance.
like Would you like a dance?
sit out She had to sit out the last dance because of a twisted ankle. 
at a/the ~ They met at a dance. 
brilliant, excellent, good, great, wonderful He's a brilliant dancer!
leading, principal a principal dancer with the Royal Ballet
ballet, ballroom, classical, clog, disco, flamenco, go-go, tap She's a very good flamenco dancer. 
perform (sth) dancers performing in the street classical dancers performing modern work > Note at JOB 
big, considerable, enormous, extreme, grave, great, mortal, obvious, real, serious, terrible They are in grave danger of losing everything. She knew that she was now in mortal danger. There is a real danger that the bridge will collapse from the weight of traffic.
acute, immediate, imminent, impending They are in imminent danger of attack.
inherent There are inherent dangers in the system.
public The pollution from the factory is a public danger. 
in ~ We weren't in any danger.
in ~ of The plant is now in danger of extinction.
out of ~ They ran until they were out of danger.
~ from, ~ of We're in serious danger of becoming a nation of worriers.
~ to There is no danger to the public from these chemicals. 
be off/on the danger list He was admitted to hospital in critical condition, but is now off the danger list. 
be exposed to, face On their journey across the desert they faced danger of all sorts.
be fraught with, involve The task was fraught with danger.
cause He was convicted of causing danger to other road users.
be aware of, foresee, identify, realize, recognize, see, sense, smell, spot No one foresaw the danger. The animal seemed to sense danger.
run A company must keep developing or it runs the danger of stagnating.
court Some people take crazy risks because they get a thrill from courting danger.
avert Vigorous action is needed to avert the danger of runaway inflation.
exist, face sb, lie in sth, lurk, threaten sb One of the biggest dangers facing us may be climate change. The danger lies in becoming too complacent. Where would they hide if danger threatened?
arise, come (from sb/sth) The biggest danger to gorillas comes from humans.
pass We waited until all danger had passed. 
area, spot, zone Despite the high levels of radiation, people are now moving back into the danger zone.
signals, signs He recognized the danger signs and gave up smoking.
money The divers were paid danger money for working in such hazardous conditions.
man The United manager believes Figo is the 
hardly, scarcely I hardly dared breathe. 
wouldn't I wouldn't dare go by myself. 
get, go, grow It gets dark at about six o'clock. Suddenly the whole sky went dark. As it grew dark, they gathered round the fire.
almost, nearly It's only three o'clock and it's nearly dark already.
complete, pitch, total The building was in pitch darkness.
gathering It was becoming impossible to see the map in the gathering darkness. 
be plunged into The electricity failed and the house was plunged into darkness.
lie in, stand in The valley lay in darkness. 
come, close in, descend, fall We arrived at the village just as darkness fell.
in (the) ~ The building was in darkness. Her eyes seemed to glow in the darkness.
into the ~ The car disappeared into the darkness.
out of the ~ A figure appeared out of the darkness. 
the hours of darkness The bombing took place during the hours of darkness.
under cover of darkness They moved about under cover of darkness. 
about, around, back, forward, off, out I've got to dash off now. 
have to, must I must dash?I'm late. 
across, along, down, in, into, out of, through, to, up He dashed frantically across the road. 
cruelly Her hopes were cruelly dashed when her parents refused to let her go. 
create, establish, set up We're trying to create our own computerized database.
add to, update The database is updated monthly.
contain sth The new database contains 200,000 images. 
on a/the ~ The information is stored on a large database.
accurately, precisely It has not yet been possible to date the paintings accurately. 
have They've got three young daughters.
bear (formal), give birth to His wife recently gave birth to a daughter.
bring up Living alone and trying to bring up a small daughter is no easy task. 
dawn bright, sunny, clear, cold, etc. The day dawned bright and sunny. 
gradually, slowly It slowly dawned on me that he might have been mistaken.
begin to It was beginning to dawn on her that she had been fooled. 
on The dreadful truth finally dawned on me. 
broad, full He was robbed in broad daylight.
natural I prefer to work in natural daylight. 
let in The thin curtains let in the daylight.
shut out The shutters were closed to keep out the daylight.
emerge into The prisoners emerged, blinking, into daylight. 
filter through sth, flood in, penetrate sth A little daylight was filtering through the curtains. He drew back the curtains and the daylight flooded in. The daylight penetrated to the far corners of the room.
break Towards 6 a.m. daylight broke.
fade The evening turned cool as daylight faded. 
hours The public has access during daylight hours. 
before ~ She was up before daylight.
by ~ By daylight the fire was almost under control.
in ~ I can see better in daylight.
into the ~ She went back out into the daylight. 
the hours of daylight The machines roar incessantly during the hours of daylight. 
appear, be, feel, look, seem, sound She looked dazed and frightened.
leave sb The punch left him dazed and bleeding. 
a bit, a little, slightly I still felt a little dazed. 
have, work to We're working to a very tight deadline.
impose, set The deadline set by the High Court is Monday 3rd March.
extend We're asking them to extend the deadline.
meet It will be a struggle to meet the deadline.
approach She began to panic as the deadline approached.
expire, pass The Wednesday deadline passed without any communication from the rebel leader. 
before a/the ~, by a/the ~ I must get this report finished by tomorrow's deadline.
~ for The deadline for entries is noon Thursday. 
be born Their child was born deaf.
become, end up, go He eventually went deaf.
remain She remained deaf until she died.
leave sb, make sb Standing next to the machine all day left her deaf in one ear. 
profoundly (technical), stone, totally Many of these children are profoundly deaf. It's no good shouting?he's stone deaf.
a little, partially, rather, slightly She spoke loudly because her mother was a little deaf.
to (figurative) The committee remained deaf to our suggestions. 
in The shop deals in second-hand books.
with Our factory deals directly with its customers. PHRASAL VERBS deal with sth 
at length, fully This topic is dealt with at greater length in the following chapter.
fairly, properly You have not dealt fairly with me.
easily Not all complaints are so easily dealt with.
separately The two issues should be dealt with separately.
a way of dealing with sth We discussed different ways of dealing with the problem. 
day-to-day The new arrangements will help the banks in their ordinary day-to-day dealings.
have They had extensive dealings with officials in Rome. 
in your ~ with We need to be very careful in our dealings with these distressed young people. 
highly, very This is a highly debatable point.
fiercely, hotly The issue is still being hotly debated.
openly, publicly The question of security needs to be debated publicly.
with a presidential candidate debating with his opponent He sat there debating with himself what to do. 
be widely debated The report has been widely debated in the industry. 
flying She was hit on the head by flying debris.
food, plant, rock These worms feed on plant debris.
scatter, shower The tank exploded, scattering debris all over the field.
clear (away/up), clear sth of, remove Teams of people are working to clear the debris. Remember to clear the drain of debris regularly.
search through, sift through Police have spent the day sifting throught the debris for clues. 
accumulate Debris accumulates at the bottom of the bottle. 
among the ~, in the ~ She found a pair of children's shoes among the debris.
elapse, go by, pass This decade has passed uneventfully.
begin, open, start This decade began badly for us.
see sth The past decade has seen a huge rise in the number of computer owners. 
badly Some of her teeth were very badly decayed.
completely The wood was completely decayed.
sadly New Shoreham, now sadly decayed, has barely 100 inhabitants. 
easily Human nature is such that we easily deceive ourselves. 
into The public should not be deceived into buying inferior goods. 
public Your behaviour is an affront to public decency. 
have He might have had the decency to let us know. 
elaborate This elaborate deception fooled his family for ages.
practise, use He'll use deception to get what he wants.
see through She failed to see through his deception.
obtain sth by (especially law) She was charged with obtaining property by deception. 
finally We finally decided to stay where we were.
sensibly, wisely He decided very wisely to keep his money rather than spend it. 
be able/unable to, can/can't, could (not) I can't decide what to do.
have to, must You will have to decide soon.
against They decided against taking legal action
between It was difficult to decide between the various options.
in favour of They decided in favour of reducing the fees.
on/upon We're still trying to decide on a venue. 
decide for yourself She should be allowed to decide for herself.
the task of deciding sth The committee will have the task of deciding whether more cash should be made available.
to be decided The exact time of the meeting is still to be decided. 
potentially He had one potentially decisive factor in his favour: the element of surprise.
ultimately It is the chief executive's opinion which is ultimately decisive. 
ringing The Russian leader received a ringing declaration of support yesterday.
issue, make The government will issue a formal declaration tomorrow.
adopt, sign All four countries have adopted the declaration against hunting rare animals. 
about/on the UN declaration on Human Rights
fall into, go into, suffer The cloth trade went into gradual decline.
cause, lead to The increased gold price lead to the decline of his jewellery business.
arrest, halt, stop We must halt this decline in health services.
see We have seen a sharp decline in educational standards over recent years. 
in ~ The motor industry is still in decline.
on the ~ This area has been on the decline for some years now.
~ of the decline of British farming 
badly/partially/partly decomposed His badly decomposed body was found many weeks later. 
extremely, highly, richly, very, wonderfully The style is ornate and highly decorative.
purely The items he makes are purely decorative.
slightly Spending has decreased slightly this year.
by Crime has decreased by 20 per cent.
from, to Average family size has decreased from five to three children.
with The number of quarrels among children decreases with age. 
decrease in number/size/value The heart gradually decreases in size. 
highly, really, truly, very The workforce is small but highly dedicated.
to She is totally dedicated to her job. 
logically The total amount can be deduced logically from the figures available. 
be possible to Using the evidence available it is possible to deduce quite a lot about how these people lived. 
from We deduce from his behaviour that he is trying to gain attention. 
by ~ She arrived at this conclusion by logical deduction.
~ about We can make some deductions about the history of the ruins. 
a process of deduction She arrived at the solution by a simple process of deduction. 
make The company automatically makes tax deductions from your salary. 
be, look The water looks quite deep there. 
ankle/knee/waist deep She stood knee deep in the water. 
be, sound Her voice sounded very deep on the telephone.
be, go, run This suspicion runs very deep among some government members.
comprehensively, convincingly, decisively, easily, heavily, soundly, totally The English were heavily defeated by the Scots in the battle that followed. The proposed bill was decisively defeated in Parliament.
narrowly Our team was narrowly defeated in the final.
by The motion was defeated by 20 votes to 18. 
be, prove If the goods prove defective, the customer has the right to compensation. 
highly, seriously, severely Her vision is seriously defective. 
be, feel, lie The city lay defenceless before the most powerful fighting force on the continent.
leave sb They were left virtually defenceless against enemy attack. 
entirely, quite, totally, utterly She felt utterly defenceless.
against They were completely defenceless against enemy attack. 
charge The defendant was charged with disturbing the peace.
convict, find guilty The defendant was convicted of murder. The jury found the defendant guilty on all counts.
sentence The defendant was sentenced to three years in prison.
for the ~ Several witnesses gave evidence for the defendant.
indefinitely The decision has been deferred indefinitely. 
for Sentence was deferred for six months.
pending Diagnosis was deferred pending further assessment.
till/until We agreed to defer discussion of these issues until the next meeting. 
in ~ (of) She held up a clenched fist in defiance. They organized a street demonstration in defiance of the government ban.
out of ~ I left the room untidy out of sheer defiance. 
correct, make good, make up, overcome, remedy I've been prescribed iron tablets to make up the deficiency. An engineer could remedy the deficiencies in the design. 
face, have, run, show If the government didn't run such huge deficits, the country would not have financial problems. The trade balance shows a deficit of two million pounds.
go into, move into, run up, slip into to prevent the country moving into deficit The company has run up a deficit of £30,000.
cut, eliminate, make up, reduce, tackle, wipe out You cannot cut a budget deficit simply by raising taxes. We will find it hard to make up this deficit.
overcome, overturn United are hoping to overturn a two-goal deficit from the first leg.
finance, fund The government was forced to sell state-owned companies to fund the budget deficit. 
run at sth a budget deficit running at 7% of GDP
in ~ The UK remained in deficit with all countries outside the EU.
~ with the US trade deficit with Japan 
careful, clear, concise, exact, precise, unambiguous The term ‘partner’ requires careful definition. The author provides a clear definition of cultural awareness.
narrow, rigid, strict According to a strict definition, the expenses of a self-employed person can be deducted from tax.
official, statutory The firm falls within the statutory definition of a ‘small company’.
working We need a good working definition of ‘pollution’.
fit This unusual building barely fits the definition of a house. 
according to a/the ~ According to a strict definition of ‘assault’, she was not assaulted.
by ~ A clinic for women would, by definition, deal with pregnancy and childbirth.
under a/the ~ Under the broader definition of ‘poverty’, thousands more people would be included. 
be prepared to, be ready to Campaigners have said that they are prepared to defy the law in order to achieve their aims.
find sth He found the work extremely degrading. 
severe He died from severe dehydration. 
appear, be, feel, look She looked sorrowful and dejected.
completely, thoroughly, totally, utterly They were thoroughly dejected and miserable.
seriously, significantly Mellanby's arrival was seriously delayed by a late train. These drugs can significantly delay the onset of the disease.
all-party, joint The prime minister met with an all-party delegation from the city council.
head, lead A well-known academic will head the delegation.
invite The government invited an international delegation to inspect the plant.
include sth The delegation included representatives from nine nations.
visit sb/sth The delegation will visit several Middle Eastern countries for talks
walk out The British delegation walked out of the discussions in protest. 
~ from an official delegation from Austria
~ of a high-powered delegation of Asian businessmen 
effective, successful All managers should learn effective delegation. 
by ~ Many of these tasks can be dealt with by delegation.
careful After careful deliberation, it was agreed to abandon the project.
with ~ With slow deliberation, he tore the letter into pieces. 
be, feel, look The glasses looked very delicate. Her bones felt as delicate as a bird's.
quite, rather, somewhat a rather delicate child This is a somewhat delicate subject.
surprisingly He had a surprisingly delicate touch.
aesthetic, sensual, spiritual His mind was reeling with an almost aesthetic delight at the beauty of the thing. 
find, take She took evident delight in frightening the children with horror stories.
scream with, squeal with, whoop with Alice squealed with sheer delight when she saw the monkeys.
be greeted with The news was greeted with great delight. 
in/with ~ We danced around with childish delight.
of ~ She gave a whoop of delight and dived into the water.
to your ~ To my great delight, they phoned and offered me the job.
~ at He expressed his delight at seeing us all again.
~ in I find a perverse delight in listening to traffic. 
a cry/gasp/squeal of delight, much to sb's delight Much to the delight of the crowd, the band came back and did three encores. 
constant, continual The baby was a constant delight and source of amazement.
enjoy, savour Savour the culinary delights of Morocco. 
to The old lady's reminiscences were a continual delight to Constance. 
most, really It has been a most delightful evening.
delightful little It was a delightful little fishing village. 
recorded, scheduled, special Ensure all photographic material is properly packed and sent by recorded delivery.
mail, milk, newspaper All mail deliveries were suspended during the strike.
service The cuts will inevitably impact on service delivery. 
do, make We do all our deliveries in the mornings.
accept, take The government has now taken delivery of the new fighter planes. 
boy, man He was employed at the local grocery store as a delivery boy.
on ~ Please pay the driver on delivery.
~ to The company offers free delivery to your home. 
get, receive The shop receives only one delivery of books per week. 
Caesarean
The figures show an increase in forceps deliveries. 
have She had a very easy delivery with her second child. 
legitimate, realistic, reasonable I think your demand for higher wages is perfectly reasonable.
fresh, new, renewed There have been renewed demands for the government to take action to reduce crime.
final A final demand for payment had been issued.
government, opposition, popular, public, royal, union The management had no intention of meeting union demands.
pay, ransom, tax, wage A ransom demand has been made for the kidnapped racehorse. 
issue, make, present, press, put forward Demands have been made for the immediate distribution of food to the refugees.
renew, repeat, step up Campaigners have stepped up their demands for immediate government action.
agree to, give in to, meet, satisfy, yield to My government cannot give in to the demands of an illegal organization.
on ~ Campaigners insist that abortion should be available on demand.
big, buoyant, considerable, enormous, great, heavy, high, huge, insatiable, peak, strong, unprecedented Demand for the product is buoyant. There's always a great demand for our soups in winter.
constant, steady She is in constant demand to make public appearances and give interviews.
overall, total We can estimate that total market demand for electrical goods will rise by 8%.
consumer, customer, market, popular, public By popular demand, the play will run for another week.
domestic, export, foreign, local, world, worldwide The slowdown in domestic demand was offset by an increase in exports.
cope with, meet, satisfy The factories are staying open all weekend to try to meet the consumer demand for this product.
create, generate It is the job of the marketing manager to create demand for the new product.
exceed, outstrip Supply normally exceeds demand for the bulk of consumer goods.
forecast It can be difficult to forecast demand in the construction industry.
grow, increase, rise Demand for personal computers has risen sharply.
decline, fall, slow (down) As demand slows, the need to export will return. 
in ~ These old machines are still in demand.
~ on This section of the population makes a high demand on health care resources. 
supply and demand the law of supply and demand > Special page at BUSINESS 
considerable, enormous, excessive, extra, great, heavy, high, impossible I think the demands of this job are excessive.
external The person who cannot say ‘no’ to others' requests is likely to be overwhelmed by external demands.
economic, emotional, financial, physical, practical, sexual, social, technical Life is hard for nurses on children's wards, where the emotional demands can be overwhelming. 
impose, make, place My elderly parents make a lot of demands on me.
on/upon My work seems to make more and more demands on my time. 
Western 
restore The military regime has promised to restore democracy soon. 
in a/the ~ We live in a multi-party democracy. 
be due for, be threatened with The church has been threatened with demolition for years.
prevent, save sth from They started a campaign to save the houses from demolition. 
amply, beyond doubt, clearly, conclusively, convincingly, successfully, well Our study demonstrates beyond doubt that the play was written by Shakespeare.
graphically, vividly This tragedy graphically demonstrates the dangers of walking on the fells after dark. 
to The prime minister must demonstrate to the country that he is really in control of his government. 
against Campaigners were demonstrating against the slaughter of dolphins.
for Their objective was to demonstrate peacefully for civil rights. 
angry Angry demonstrators threw stones.
crowd, group Police opened fire on a crowd of peaceful demonstrators. 
disperse Troops were brought in to disperse the demonstrators.
clash with, fire on, open fire on, use sth against Water cannon and tear gas were used against the demonstrators. 
gather The demonstrators had gathered in the cathedral square.
march Demonstrators marched on the parliament building.
disperse The demonstrators dispersed when the soldiers arrived.
attack sb, clash with sb Demonstrators clashed with government soldiers in the country's ca
storm sth Demonstrators then tried to storm the police headquarters. 
publicly He was publicly denounced as a traitor.
for The government was bitterly denounced for the emergency measures.
to Someone in the village must have denounced them to the authorities. 
be widely denounced These new regulations have been widely denounced. 
considerable, serious, severe, significant (all figurative) The latest health scare has made a very considerable dent in the sales of beef.
leave, make The impact of the stones made little dents in the metal.
in My side of the car had a large dent in it. 
NHS, private 
register with She couldn't get treatment because she wasn't registered with the dentist. > Note at DOCTOR(for more verbs) 
issue, make In his speech, he made a fierce denunciation of government policy. 
be due to, be scheduled to The plane was scheduled to depart at 8.30.
prepare to They shook hands all round and prepared to depart. 
for He departs for New York tomorrow morning.
from We depart from Heathrow at ten o'clock tonight. 
abrupt, sudden Everyone was a bit puzzled by her sudden departure.
imminent, impending The guard blew his whistle to warn of the train's imminent departure.
flight The last check-in time is 45 minutes before flight departure. 
make He made a hasty departure.
hasten Her row with the MD probably hastened her departure.
point Atocha station was the departure point for our tour.
gate, lounge We sat in the departure lounge waiting for our flight to be called. 
before ~, prior to ~ You should receive your flight tickets at least a week prior to departure.
on ~ All visitors must sign the book on arrival and again on departure.
~ for his departure for Naples
~ from her departure from London 
the day/time of departure, the point of departure (figurative) The author takes Freud's dream theories as the point of departure for his essay. 
from This document marks a radical departure from earlier recommendations. 
find sb I find him very dependable. 
absolutely, totally, utterly She is loyal and totally dependable.
closely, deeply, greatly, heavily, highly, very Many of the patients are closely dependent on staff for day-to-day emotional support. The country is heavily dependent on oil and gas imports.
critically, crucially Modern science is critically dependent on high-performance computing.
absolutely, completely, entirely, solely, totally, utterly, wholly Jane had never met anyone so utterly dependent. The land is dry and wholly dependent on irrigation.
mutually The various organs of the body do not function in isolation but are mutually dependent.
on/upon Small firms are dependent upon the local economy. 
entirely, solely, totally The amount of benefit you receive is entirely dependent on the amount you have paid in.
essentially, largely, mainly Your access to a good education is largely dependent on where you live.
heavily, seriously, severely Both teams were severely depleted by injuries. 
effectively Tanks were deployed effectively during the long campaign. 
against She rejected the arguments that had been deployed against her. 
back) to Many refugees were forcibly deported back to the countries they had come from.
from He was deported from Britain last week. 
bank, building society Building society deposits have increased by 2.3%.
make She made a deposit of £60 into her account. 
on We've put down the deposit on our new car. 
refundable, returnable All deposits for holiday cottages are refundable. 
give (sb), leave (sb), pay (sb) You have to pay a deposit of £100 as well as two months' rent.
get back You'll get back your deposit once we've checked the bikes are all right.
forfeit, lose If furniture is damaged, you will forfeit your deposit. 
on I had to leave a £50 deposit on the bike. 
thick, thin The floods left a thick deposit of mud over the fields.
have The region has many deposits of valuable oil.
against Sterling is expected to depreciate against the dollar.
by The rupee depreciated by 9 per cent. 
depreciate in value Cars depreciate in value fairly rapidly. 
deeply, extremely, profoundly, really, very We found it a deeply depressing experience.
infinitely I find politics infinitely depressing: none of the parties appeal to me.
experience, suffer Many of the people suffered terrible deprivation. 
considerable, great going down to great depths below the surface Younger students cannot be expected to have great depth of understanding.
shallow Water normally moves more slowly at shallower depths.
at ~ The camera must be strong enough to resist the immense water pressure at depth.
at/from/to a ~ of These fish are found at a depth of over 100 metres.
at/from/to a … ~ The clam burrows in the sand to a considerable depth.
in ~ I studied phonology in depth at university.
out of your ~ I don't like going out of my depth in the sea.
~s of The rejection plunged her into the dark depths of despair. 
depth of emotion/feeling The demonstration showed the depth of feeling against the war.
former a former deputy chairman of the Democratic Party 
appoint (sb as) A new deputy has not yet been appointed.
chair, chairman, director, governor, head, leader, manager, minister, president, etc. He was appointed deputy head of the school. 
to She is acting as deputy to the chairman of the board. 
elect Three women were among the 77 deputies elected. 
be, lie, look, seem, stand The land lay derelict for ten years.
make sth The houses were made derelict by the fire. 
into, to The path descends steeply to the village. 
directly The breed is almost directly descended from the Eurasian wild boar. 
claim to He claims to be descended from a Spanish prince. 
difficult, easy They began the difficult descent of the mountain's south west face.
final The plane was making its final descent so we had to fasten our seat belts. 
on/during a/the ~ The engines failed on the plane's descent to Orly.
~ down I made a slow and painful descent down the stairs.
~ to The plane began its gentle descent to Heathrow. 
a rate of descent We slowed the balloon's rate of descent. 
direct, lineal She claims direct descent from Queen Victoria.
common Most European languages have a common descent.
Chinese, Irish, etc. 
by ~ She is Hungarian by descent.
~ from He claims to have traced descent from Christopher Columbus. 
a line of descent Humans and other apes followed separate lines of descent from a common ancestor.
of Mexican, Scottish, etc. descent She is of mixed European and African descent. 
complete, comprehensive, detailed, full The catalogue gives a full description of each product.
accurate, apt, exact, excellent, fair, fitting, good, perfect ‘Like a fish out of water’ was an apt description of how I felt in my new job.
vivid a vivid description of life in Ancient Rome
graphic, lurid She gave us a lurid description of the birth.
objective A report is generally an objective description rather than a statement of opinion.
job There was no mention of any cleaning in my job description. 
give (sb), issue, provide (sb with) Police have issued a description of the gunman. She was able to provide a description of the intruder.
fit A man fitting your description was seen entering the building.
beggar, defy His face was so odd that it defies description. 
apply to sb, fit sb I realized to my horror that the description of the killer fitted me. 
Arctic, polar
cultural (figurative) The theatre and cinema closed and the town became a cultural desert. 
become, turn into/to The land loses its protective cover of vegetation and soon turns into desert.
cross He became the first person to cross the desert on foot. 
stretch The desert stretched for endless miles on all sides of us. 
into the ~ He drove off into the desert. 
certainly, really, surely You really deserve a medal!
justly, richly, rightly, truly He finally received the recognition that he so richly deserved.
fully, thoroughly This hotel fully deserves its four-star grading.
hardly, scarcely It's true she made a mistake but she hardly deserves to lose her job. 
for She deserves some reward for all her hard work. 
deserve better His work received only a tiny mention in the journal; he deserves better.
well deserved At last she managed to have a well-deserved rest. 
work She's done some design work for us in the past.
process The new CAD program really speeds up the design process.
art and design I'm doing a course in art and design. 
come up with, create, produce He's come up with a really good design for a solar-powered car.
follow, use We followed the traditional design. 
feature The latest model incorporates some novel design features.
concept, idea, solution The architect put forward two alternative design concepts for the new library.
brief, requirements, specifications The chair she had sketched was far bigger than stipulated in the design brief.
award The car wouldn't win any design awards, but it's very reliable. 
in ~ The machine is quite simple in design.
to a … ~ The other houses are built to a more conventional design.
at the design stage Their new car is still at the design stage. 
have The building has intricate geometric designs on several of the walls. 
grand His grand design was to connect up every academic institution in the world. 
harbour, have I suspected that he had some sinister designs. 
by ~ Had it happened by accident or by design? 
formally, officially The area has now been formally designated as a Site of Special Scientific Interest.
for These areas have been specially designated for children. 
consider sth, deem sth, feel sth, regard/see/view sth as, think sth A new direction was felt desirable for both parties. This kind of work is seen as desirable. 
eminently, extremely, highly, very Experience of computers is highly desirable.
clearly, obviously It is clearly desirable that domestic and European law should be compatible.
extremely, intensely, very He found her intensely desirable.
greatly, really, sincerely, very much A home of her own was something she had always very much desired. 
be, seem, stand The house stands desolate and empty.
leave sth The land was left desolate. 
completely, quite The landscape was quite desolate.
be, feel, look, sound He looked as desolate as Ruth felt.
quite, utterly She was utterly desolate after losing her baby.
a little Her voice sounded a little desolate. 
become, get I was starting to get desperate.
make sb The sudden loss of his money had made him desperate. 
absolutely, utterly She felt utterly desperate.
about I felt desperate about my future. 
condemn sth as, consider sth, find sth Police have condemned the theft from an elderly widow as despicable. To fail was considered despicable. 
absolutely, quite It was an absolutely despicable thing to do.
be, feel Patients often feel despondent.
become, get, grow His work was rejected again and again, and he grew more and more despondent. 
utterly She was feeling utterly despondent.
about He had become rather despondent about his lack of progress. 
favourite, popular The town is a popular destination for art lovers.
intended We got lost and ended up miles away from our intended destination.
holiday, tourist The island is an ideal holiday destination.
arrive at, reach At around 1.00 p.m. we reached our final destination. 
to a/the ~ The deposed leader is reported to have fled the capital to an unknown destination.
the country/port/state of destination The goods are examined by customs at the port of destination. 
all but, almost, effectively, practically, virtually Their lives have been virtually destroyed by this tragedy.
systematically The rainforest is being systematically destroyed.
by fire The building was destroyed by fire last year. 
can/could Drugs can destroy the health and lives of young people.
threaten to This disease threatens to destroy many of our native trees. 
be capable of destroying sth These weapons are capable of destroying the entire planet.
be intent on destroying sth She seemed intent on destroying everything they had built up together. 
have to be destroyed The horse broke a leg and had to be destroyed. 
of Clearing trees by burning is highly destructive of the forest environment.
to These substances can be destructive to health. 
curiously, oddly, strangely He felt curiously detached from what was going on.
from She tries to remain emotionally detached from her patients. 
little, minor, minute, small, tiny It is important to get even the small details right.
considerable, fine, great, meticulous Now let us examine this idea in greater detail. Every new animal or plant found was recorded in meticulous detail.
exact, precise I don't need to know the precise details of your quarrel.
graphic, sordid I can still remember the accident in graphic detail.
intimate The diary contains intimate details of their life together.
complete, full We'll give you full details of how to enter our competition later.
bare, brief, sketchy ~s He only managed to give the police a few sketchy details of the robbery.
essential I only know the barest details of his plans.
practical I haven't sorted out the practical details of getting there yet.
final Everyone must approve the basic plan before the final details are drawn up.
concrete Can you give me some concrete details of how you've been saving money?
point I must correct some points of detail in your article on Barcelona.
wealth The book provides a wealth of detail on daily life in Ancient Rome.
level Ensure that your diagrams contain the appropriate level of detail. 
give, go into, provide, send, supply Briefly describe the product, but do not give any technical details at this stage. I don't want to go into any more detail than absolutely necessary.
lay out, lay sth out in, set out, set sth out in, spell out, spell sth out in Details of the pension plan are set out below. The rules are set out in detail in chapter seven.
establish, finalize, work out, work sth out in We haven't yet worked out the the case.
show The receipt shows details of the item purchased.
disclose, pass on, release ~s The city council refused to disclose details of the proposed traffic ban.
find out ~s You can find o
enter ~s Enter your details in the form below then click on ‘submit’.
take ~s The secretary took my details and said they would get back to me.
check Make sure you check the details of the policy before you sign it.
record The computer records the details of everyone entering the country.
be lacking in, lack The speech was well delivered but lacking in detail. 
for ~s For details contact Joanna Morland.
in ~ I haven't looked at the proposal in detail yet.
over a/the ~ They're still arguing over the details of the contract.
~ about I won't go into detail about the threats she made.
~ on For more detail on how to obtain a visa, see page 8. 
attention to detail The secret of their success lies in their attention to 
briefly He was kidnapped and briefly detained by a terrorist group. 
need not This issue need not detail us long. 
for She was arrested and detained for distributing pro-democracy leaflets.
in connection with Over 60 people have been detained in connection with the coup attempt. 
be detained in custody/hospital Two people were detained in hospital following the crash.
detain sb without charge/trial He has been detained without trial for nearly two years now. 
early Our aim is the early detection and treatment of all cancers. 
avoid, escape, evade Their prey can sometimes escape detection by remaining still. 
rate The latest figures show falling crime detection rates. 
arbitrary Opponents of the regime had been subject to arbitrary detention, torture and execution.
indefinite If found guilty of smuggling drugs, she could face indefinite detention. 
hold sb in, place sb in, sentence sb to He was held in detention from 1991 to 2001. They were sentenced to 12 months' detention in a young offender institution.
in ~ She spent 18 years in detention.
under ~ He made the confession while under detention. 
a period/term of detention The judge will fix the period of detention. 
begin to His health began to deteriorate quite seriously.
into The unrest rapidly deteriorated into civil war. 
clear The prime minister's speech revealed a clear determination to break the power of the unions. 
be full of, have She was full of determination to achieve her goals. He has the determination to succeed.
reveal, show She has shown great determination and skill.
express, signal The government last night signalled its determination to resist tax cuts.
with ~ He hung on with grim determination. 
make sb The opposition to her scheme made her more determined than ever. 
absolutely, quite, utterly They were quite determined that he wasn't going to do it.
fiercely, grimly His voice was grimly determined.
make, take We had to make a lengthy detour through the backstreets.
be worth The monument is well worth a detour. 
around Trucks now face a five-mile detour around the bridge.
~ through, ~ to The ship made a detour to the south. 
against The pound was devalued against the US dollar.
by The Cambodian currency was effectively devalued by 25 per cent. 
highly, strongly, well He's got a highly developed sense of humour.
poorly She was born prematurely with poorly developed lungs.
full School should encourage the full development of a student's talents.
aid, allow, assist, encourage, enhance, facilitate, favour, foster, permit, promote, stimulate, support Education stimulates the stage in the development of Anglo-Irish relations
a stage of development This is a perfectly normal stage of development. 
logical The move from TV to film was a logical development in her career.
development of rational thinking. A group of experts has been brought together to support the develop business, commercial
accelerate, speed up Ribbon developments (= lines of Environmental factors can buildings) extended along the main accelerate the development of road.certain cancers.
arrest, discourage, halt, hinder, inhibit, prevent, restrict, retard, slow Too much emphasis on memorizing facts can inhibit the development of creative thinking.
finance The company went deep into debt to finance the development of the engine.
monitor, oversee A UN team is monitoring the development of the peace process.
trace In the opening chapter, the author traces the development of judo from its ancient roots. 
work The invention requires more development work to make it viable.
during ~ Cell divisions during development occur in a fixed sequence.
in ~ A more powerful version of this electric bus in currently in development.
under ~ The new vaccine is still under development. 
research and development I do quite a lot of research and development work in my job.
bugging, contraceptive, measuring, safety, timing, warning Police found several bugging devices in the room.
explosive, incendiary An incendiary device exploded in the store, setting fire to furniture. 
be fitted with, have All new cars are now fitted with these safety devices.
use He measured the room using an ingenious new electronic device. 
consist of sth The device consists of a large wheel mounted on a metal post.
work The device worked exactly as I'd hoped. 
completely, entirely, quite, totally, utterly Are you totally devoid of common sense?
almost, largely, practically, virtually The land is almost devoid of vegetation. 
to They were totally devoted to each other. 
fanatical, intense, passionate, single-minded Their single-minded devotion to the care of the dying was admirable.
blind, dog-like He was mocked for his dog-like devotion to his boss.
with ~ He cared for his mother with great devotion.
~ to They showed great devotion to each other. 
devotion to duty The judge praised the firefighters for their bravery and devotion to duty.
devotion to the cause She will be remembered for her selfless devotion to the cause of the poor.
an object of devotion The statue of the emperor became an object of devotion. 
heavy There was a heavy dew this morning.
morning The sun had dried the early morning dew. 
drop Drops of dew shone on the grass. 
damp/heavy/wet with dew The grass was still wet with dew. 
incorrectly, wrongly Her condition was wrongly diagnosed by the doctor. 
with He was diagnosed with leukaemia. 
draw Draw a simple diagram of the leaf structure. 
in a/the ~ Compare this system to the one shown in diagram B.
on a/the ~ The trees will be planted at the points marked on the diagram.
direct It is possible to dial direct to many countries. 
close There needs to be a closer dialogue between management and staff.
direct The government refused to engage in direct dialogue with the terrorists.
engage in, have, hold Managers are willing to hold a dialogue with union leaders.
~ among The head encourages a climate of open dialogue among the teachers.
~ with They have agreed to resume their dialogue with the teachers. 
have sth in I haven't got the meeting in my diary.
put sth in, write sth in Put it in your diary before you forget. 
field, gardening, travel He jotted down observations on the animals' habits in his field diary. 
keep I starting keeping a diary when I was thirteen.
write sth in, note sth in, record sth in ‘It's all over,’ he wrote in his diary for April 21. 
in a/your ~ I've made a note in my diary. 
do, have We did a French dictation in class.
give sb The teacher gave them a dictation.
take Her secretary is very good at taking dictation. 
at sb's ~ I wrote some letters at his dictation.
from ~ I find it difficult to write letters from dictation.
in a/the ~ We had some very difficult words in our dictation. 
English, French, etc.
English/French, French/English, etc.
biographical, encyclopedic, medical I decided to consult a medical dictionary. 
consult, look sth up in, use If you don't know the meaning of a word, look it up in the dictionary. teaching children how to use dictionaries
in a/the ~ I couldn't find the word in the dictionary. 
run on, use These buses run on diesel. 
car, engine, locomotive, model, train The diesel model is noisier than the petrol model. 
considerably, enormously, fundamentally, greatly, markedly, radically, sharply, significantly, substantially, widely The two approaches differ markedly Opinions differ widely on this issue.
according to Conditions of employment differ according to the type of company you are working for.
between Social organization differs significantly between the different groups.
from His ideas differ little from those of his father.
in The models differ in size and shape. 
agree to In the end we agreed to differ.
beg to I beg to differ (= I disagree with you). 
about/over The two sides still differ over details of the plan.
on The two parties differ on all the major issues.
with It didn't seem right that I should differ with him. 
distinctly, markedly, radically, significantly, strikingly This school is radically different from most others.
subtly The same colour can appear subtly different on different types of paper.
from Human beings are different from other animals.
to Their customs are very different to ours. 
become, get It is getting more and more difficult to find a job.
make sth The fog made driving very difficult.
doubly Her disability made taking care of the home and raising a family doubly difficult.
notoriously Birth rates are notoriously difficult to predict. 
give She gave him a sharp dig in the ribs.
sly I resisted the temptation to get in a sly dig at Fred. 
about, ~ at They were having a little dig at her about the way she tells everybody else what to do. 
go on I went on an archaeological dig over the summer. 
reveal sth The dig revealed the site of a Roman villa. 
easily Some foods are digested more easily than others.
partially The parent bird partially digests food in its crop. 
can/can't He has to avoid fat because his body can't digest it.
be difficult to, be easy to Cheese is very difficult to digest. 
three, four, etc. digits long The number can be up to eight digits long. 
calm, quiet She spoke to him with quiet dignity.
have, possess These people have enormous dignity.
keep, maintain, preserve, retain We all want to maintain our dignity in old age.
give sb Being treated in the privacy of your own room gives you more dignity.
lose The awful thing about old age is losing your dignity.
destroy, rob/strip sb of, threaten Slavery destroys human dignity. Keeping prisoners in such dreadful conditions strips them of all dignity.
muster With as much dignity as he could muster, he left the room.
stand on (= insist on the respect you think you deserve) She was never one to stand on her dignity. 
beneath your ~ He clearly regarded manual work as beneath his dignity.
an air of dignity His aristocratic voice gives him an air of dignity and power.
lacking in dignity We felt that the way she was treated was lacking in dignity.
a lack of dignity, a loss of dignity He hoped that he could change his mind without loss of dignity.
a sense of dignity She had a strong sense of dignity.
with your dignity intact He needed a way to retreat with his dignity intact. 
highly The fragrances are highly diluted.
slightly Dilute the juice slightly with water. 
in The perfumes are diluted in vegetable oils.
considerably, substantially The effect of this policy has now been considerably diluted. 
make Who's making that awful din?
hear sb above/over She could not be heard above the din of the crowd. 
above/over the ~ Charles shouted above the din. 
row, sail She sailed the dinghy across the bay. 
in/into a/the ~ She rowed ashore in the dinghy. 
delicious, excellent, good, slap-up, sumptuous We were treated to a slap-up meal with every kind of seafood imaginable.
Christmas, Sunday
convenience, TV (= eaten while sitting watching the TV)
table There was never much conversation at the dinner table in my family.
things We didn't wash up the dinner things until the morning after.
menu The school dinner menu always includes a balance of food types.
money I always forgot to take my dinner money to school.
dance the society's annual dinner dance > Note at MEAL(for verbs) 
annual The rugby club's annual dinner is this week.
gala A gala dinner was held to celebrate the world premiere of the film.
state A state dinner was held in honour of the visiting Japanese premier. 
give, hold, throw My old school is giving a fund-raising dinner
attend We're going to attend a formal dinner in aid of cancer research.
change for, dress for Are we expected to dress for dinner?
speak at The former Olympic champion was invited to speak at a charity dinner. 
party They invited three couples to a dinner party at their house.
lightly She dipped the brush lightly in the varnish. 
in, into He dipped his finger in the water 
down The road dipped steeply down into the town. 
below The sun dipped below the horizon. 
sharply Support dipped sharply to 51%. 
national The college offers the Higher National Diploma in computer studies.
award (sb), confer (on sb) The university awards diplomas in higher education.
lead to The course leads to a diploma in psychiatric nursing. 
holder Diploma holders have a far better chance of employment than those with no qualification. 
at diploma level Most students here are studying for a qualification at diploma level. 
American, British, etc. 
be, serve as, work as He served as a diplomat in Russia before the war. 
mainly, primarily, principally Tax cuts have been directed primarily at the better-off.
straight He directed the torch straight in her face.
at criticism clearly directed at the Labour Party
onto The machine directs light onto a special film.
to I directed my question to the chairman.
towards We are directing our efforts towards helping young people. 
clear Don't start anything without a clear directive from management.
EU, European (Commission/Union), government, ministerial
issue The EU issued a new drinking water directive.
comply with, implement All companies must comply with the new directive.
come into force A new EU directive on maternity leave will come into force next month.
require sth The directive requires member states to designate sites of special scientific interest. 
in accordance with a/the ~ They acted in accordance with the latest directive from Brussels.
in a/the ~ The proposals are contained in a European directive on wild birds.
under a/the ~ Private health services will be allowed under the directive.
~ from a directive from the European Commission
business, shopping, telephone, trade I found the company's name in a trade directory. 
in a/the ~ Names are listed alphabetically in the directory.
get Go and play football if you like, but don't get dirty!
get sth, make sb/sth The soot had made everything dirty. (figurative) He's not frightened of getting his hands dirty (= doing physical work). 
extremely, filthy (informal), really, very Everything in the room was filthy dirty.
leave sb The accident left him badly disabled. 
remain These social groups remain disadvantaged. 
doubly Part-time workers, the majority of whom are women, are doubly disadvantaged.
by Many people will be greatly disadvantaged by the new tax system. 
bitter, considerable, deep, major, serious, sharp, substantial, total, wide There is wide disagreement on this issue.
be in, have They were in disagreement about the move to Cambridge. The things she said were always in disagreement, with the teacher or another member of the class. They had a disagreement about the best way to get to Manchester.
express She expressed disagreement with the government's policy.
resolve, settle, solve How is a basic disagreement of this nature to be resolved?
be open to This view is subjective and therefore open to disagreement. 
arise, occur A disagreement arose over who should pay for the trip.
exist Disagreement exists over the pattern of demand for coal.
in ~ He shook his head in disagreement.
~ about/over They had a major disagreement over who should clean the car.
~ among/amongst, ~ as to There is considerable disagreement among archaeologists as to the age of the sculpture.
~ on There is fundamental disagreement on these matters.
~ with He had a disagreement with his girlfriend. 
an area of disagreement There are several areas of disagreement between the two governments.
a source of disagreement Money was a constant source of disagreement.
room/scope for disagreement There is plenty of room for disagreement in this controversial area. 
abrupt, sudden How could he explain his abrupt disappearance from the party?
lead to Modern farming practice has led to the virtual disappearance of this bird.
investigate Essex police are investigating the mysterious disappearance of two young men.
bitterly, deeply, desperately, extremely, hugely, really, terribly, very The film was terribly disappointing.
strong Several countries have expressed their strong disapproval of the law.
public The decision met with widespread public disapproval.
note There was more than a note of disapproval in her voice. 
express, mark, register, show To mark his disapproval he refused to go to the wedding. Her face registered her disapproval. The students are showing their disapproval by refusing to attend lectures.
feel, sense Even at this distance she could sense his disapproval. 
in ~ Her lip curled in disapproval.
with ~ Harold noted the boy's earring with disapproval.
~ at She was stiff with disapproval at the notion.
~ of his disapproval of Wallace's conduct 
a chorus/roar of disapproval There was a chorus of disapproval from the crowd.
an expression/a frown/a look of disapproval Seeing the look of disapproval on the doctor's face, I put out my cigarette.
a murmur/sniff of disapproval Dr Ali gave a great sniff of disapproval. 
fall into His personal life fell into disarray when his wife left him.
throw sth into Our plans were thrown into disarray by the rail strike. 
in ~ The meeting broke up in disarray.
~ within a period of disarray within the National Party 
absolutely, quite, utterly The policy was absolutely disastrous for the economy.
vinyl I've got an old vinyl disc of her singing. 
on (a/the) ~ He is one of the greatest opera singers on disc. The Prokofiev sonata comes first on the disc.
~ of a disc of the two Mozart piano quartets > See CD 
prolapsed, slipped He's in bed with a slipped disc. 
slip She's slipped a disc. 
clearly, easily She could clearly discern a figure walking up towards the house.
give He was given an absolute discharge but banned from driving for 12 months. 
ardent She was an ardent disciple of Freud. 
make He commanded them to go out and make disciples of all nations. 
fully He had not fully disclosed all his business dealings.
be obliged to, be required to, must Members of Parliament are required to disclose all their financial interests.
fail to, refuse to He failed to disclose all the information. 
to She was accused of disclosing confidential material to a competitor. 
a bit, a little, rather, slightly, somewhat I found all that noise rather disconcerting. 
hint, note A note of discord surfaced during the leaders' meeting. 
a source of discord The contrasts between rich and poor nations are a source of discord. 
actively, firmly, positively, strongly Smoking is actively discouraged in the university. 
from We tried to discourage him from resigning. 
be easily discouraged Children are easily discouraged from reading. 
amazing, big, exciting, great, important, major, remarkable, significant, startling, surprising, unexpected potentially the biggest archaeological discovery in Norway for fifty years
accidental, chance All these were chance discoveries made by scientists engaged in other investigations.
personal The story tells of a man's journey of personal discovery up an African river. 
make New scientific discoveries are being made all the time.
lead to Their work led to some important medical discoveries.
await There may be many unexpected treasures awaiting discovery. 
by a discovery by a French scientist
~ of the discovery of oil in the North Sea 
a process of discovery, a journey/voyage of discovery (figurative) To tour Sri Lanka is to take a voyage of discovery through a land of endless variety. 
account for, explain How do you explain the apparent discrepancies between the money and the receipts?
find, note, notice, observe, perceive She failed to notice the discrepancy between the name on the cheque and the name on the driving licence.
between Discrepancies occurred between the written and electronic records.
~ in There were wide discrepancies in the evidence. 
against The present law discriminates unfairly against women.
on (the) grounds of Workers must avoid discriminating on the grounds of race or sex. 
exhaustively, fully, in detail, thoroughly The plan was discussed in great detail.
at length, endlessly, extensively These ideas will be discussed at greater length in the next chapter.
openly This problem has never been discussed openly before.
critically, intelligently Pupils should be encouraged to discuss critically the information they are given. 
convene (sth) to, meet to to convene a conference to discuss the country's political future The committee meets regularly to discuss these issues.
refuse to He refused to discuss it with me.
be prepared to, be willing to I'm not prepared to discuss this on the phone. 
with I'd like to discuss this matter with you later. 
an opportunity to discuss sth, widely discussed The proposals have been widely discussed in the media. 
feel, have She did not hesitate to express the disdain that she felt.
express, show Judges sometimes show great disdain for the law.
look on/upon sb/sth with, treat sb/sth with Traditionalists look upon the changes with disdain. 
in ~ She turned her head away in disdain.
with ~ Why does he treat his father with such disdain?
~ for He has an aristocratic disdain for money. 
badly, grossly He was badly disfigured by the accident.
absolutely, quite, utterly There's litter everywhere. It's absolutely disgraceful. 
cleverly, cunningly She was cleverly disguised as a policewoman. 
from You cannot disguise what you are doing from your family. 
an attempt to disguise sth He made no attempt to disguise his liking for her.
barely/thinly disguised In her speech she made several thinly disguised attacks on the president. 
visibly She looked visibly disgusted. 
at I'm quite disgusted at the way he's treated you.
by I was absolutely disgusted by the whole business.
with I was thoroughly disgusted with her behaviour. 
in a/the ~ Arrange the chicken and salad in a serving dish. 
dirty, unwashed The dirty breakfast dishes were still in the sink when we got home.
do, wash It's your turn to do the dishes.
dry He dried the dishes and put them away.
main, side Serve one or two main dishes with a choice of salads and nibbles.
favourite Do you have a favourite dish?
local, international, national, regional The national dish is ‘bigos’?hunter's stew.
Chinese, French, etc.
cheese, egg, fish, meat, pasta, rice, seafood, vegetable Goulash is a meat dish.
breakfast, lunch, supper Kedgeree makes a wonderful supper dish. 
cook, make, prepare She cooked us a delicious French dish with pork and tomatoes.
serve a restaurant that serves traditional Indian dishes
sample, try They sampled all the local dishes. 
the dish of the day I can recommend the chef's dish of the day. > Special page at FOOD 
run It wastes energy to run the dishwasher half empty. 
dishwasher proof/safe Are these glasses dishwasher safe? 
~ with There is growing public disillusionment with the present system of government. 
lead to, result in This defeat led to the disintegration of the empire. 
acute, deep, great, hearty, intense, real, strong, violent Several committee members expressed their intense dislike of the chairman.
active She threw him a look of active dislike.
cold He glanced at her with cold dislike.
mutual In spite of their mutual dislike and hostility, they quite often worked together. 
feel, have She felt dislike rather than sympathy as he told his story. My grandfather has a great dislike of long hair on boys.
take I took an instant dislike to my new colleague. 
with ~ Sonia stared at me with dislike and distrust.
~ for She had a deep dislike for Robert's wife. 
your likes and dislikes I've told you all my likes and dislikes. 
accuse sb of Her friends accused her of disloyalty. 
to He has shown disloyalty to the party and is not to be trusted. 
deep, great The government has expressed ‘deep dismay’ at police violence against protesters.
feel I felt a mounting dismay at the prospect.
hide It was impossible to hide my dismay at what I had seen.
cause The laws on hunting cause dismay to many animal lovers.
be regarded with, be greeted with, be viewed with The news was greeted with widespread dismay. 
in ~ Louise stared at the torn letter in dismay.
with ~ I read of her resignation with some dismay.
~ over Brady made no secret of his dismay over his treatment. 
much) to your dismay Much to my dismay, she was out when I called. 
automatic, immediate, instant, summary His attack on the manager led to his instant dismissal.
constructive, unfair, wrongful She won her claim for constructive dismissal because she had been pressured into resigning. 
call for Crash victims are calling for the dismissal of the coach driver.
be faced with, be threatened with, face, risk They were warned that they risked dismissal if the strike continued.
appeal against, claim Cooke, who was with the firm 30 years, claims unfair dismissal. 
~ on the grounds of She is now faced with dismissal on the grounds of misconduct. 
civil He called for a campaign of civil disobedience if the president did not honour the election results. 
an act of disobedience His behaviour was seen as another act of disobedience. 
highly, hopelessly, very She never gets anywhere on time. She's hopelessly disorganized.
widely The population in this area is quite widely dispersed.
begin to The crowd slowly began to disperse. 
clearly, prominently His football trophies were prominently displayed in the kitchen.
to She proudly displayed her degree certificate to her parents. 
company, expert, squad The device was defused by army bomb disposal experts. 
at your ~ (= available for your use) He will have a car at his disposal for the whole month. Well, I'm at your disposal (= I am ready to help you in any way I can). 
have, show These dogs show a very sociable disposition. 
of a … ~ This film is not recommended for those of a nervous disposition. 
considerable, major, serious There is considerable dispute over the precise definition of ‘social class’ as a term. The incident sparked off a major dispute between the two countries.
simmering The simmering dispute erupted in public when the two men came to blows at the party conference.
outstanding He proposed a negotiated settlement of the outstanding disputes between the two countries.
internal There were lengthy internal disputes between the two wings of the party.
be drawn into Governments are often drawn into disputes about matters of public taste and decency.
be embroiled in, be engaged in, be involved in They became embroiled in a dispute with their neighbours.
deal with, handle Police have difficulties in dealing with domestic disputes.
adjudicate, decide The purpose of industrial tribunals is to adjudicate disputes between employers and employees.
be open to His theories are open to dispute (= can be disagreed with). 
arise, begin, erupt No one could remember exactly how the dispute had arisen.
beyond ~ The matter was settled beyond dispute by the court judgment (= it could no longer be argued about).
in ~ (with) The actual sum of compensation due is still in dispute (= being argued about). The employees have been in dispute with management for three weeks.
~ about/over, ~ among/amongst The exact relationship between the two languages is a matter of dispute amongst scholars.
~ as to There is no dispute as to the facts.
blithe, fine (ironic) With a fine disregard for geography, she decided to start her journey to Paris by sailing to the Hook of Holland. 
for He showed complete disregard for the feelings of his family.
rather, slightly, vaguely He had a vaguely disreputable appearance. 
have, show, treat sb/sth with She felt he had total disrespect for women.
mean no I mean no disrespect to the team, but their performance was poor. 
for The new manager showed a healthy disrespect for formality. 
no disrespect intended/to … No disrespect intended sir; it was just a joke. 
suffer The city centre suffered some disruption due to a bomb scare.
to The bombing campaign caused massive disruption to industry. 
cause, give rise to, lead to Pay cuts have led to widespread dissatisfaction.
~ among There was widespread dissatisfaction among the public.
~ at She expressed deep dissatisfaction at the way the interview had been conducted.
~ with There is growing dissatisfaction with the current style of management. 
serious, strong He would brook no serious dissent.
political, religious Political dissent is not tolerated. 
express, show There are many ways of expressing dissent.
stifle, suppress The regime ruthlessly suppresses all dissent. 
against popular dissent against the Church
~ from His dissent from his family's religious beliefs caused a lot of ill-feeling. 
a voice of dissent In the early 1960s, the voices of dissent began to rise. 
to This violence will do a grave disservice to their cause. 
from His views are not dissimilar from those of the Health Minister.
to The way of life here is not altogether dissimilar to that in other parts of Europe. 
appreciable, considerable, enormous, fair, good, great, huge, large, long, vast The town is a considerable distance from the coast. It's quite a good distance to the nearest village. The people travel vast distances to find food.
careful, comfortable, convenient, discreet, respectful, safe The cat sat and watched us from a safe distance.
braking, stopping Allow for greater braking distances when pulling a loaded trailer.
geographical, physical These immigrants face problems of geographical distance and cultural isolation. 
cover, fly, go, travel, walk The young birds were soon flying distances of 200 feet or more. 
at a ~ (from/of) When launching a kick it is essential to be at the correct distance from your opponent. The town is situated at a distance of twenty miles from Oxford. She followed them at a discreet distance.
from a ~ (of) Visitors can only view the painting from a distance of three metres.
over a ~ (of) The sound can be heard over a distance of more than five miles.
~ away from The house is a short distance away from the bus station.
~ between What's the distance between London and Edinburgh?
a … distance ahead, away, apart, etc. A bomb exploded some distance away.
within commuting/driving/strolling/travelling/wal distance The shops are within walking distance.
within hailing/shouting/sniffing/spitting/striking/ distance The cat was now within striking distance of the duck. 
far, middle I could just see the hills in the far distance.
blue (literary) The moors stretched away into the blue distance (= the sky). 
learning The Open University offers a wide range of distance learning programmes.
at a ~ At a distance it is difficult to make out the detail on the building.
from a ~ We admired the palace from a distance.
in the ~ In the distance was a small village. 
keep, maintain She was warned to keep her distance from Charles if she didn't want to get hurt. Sociologists must maintain critical distance from the ideas of society at any particular time. 
from He felt a sense of distance from the others. 
evident, obvious She regarded the child with evident distaste.
conceal, hide He couldn't conceal the deep distaste that he felt for many of their customs.
in ~ She wrinkled her nose in mock distaste.
with ~ Jim looked with distaste at the cockroach in his soup.
~ at He couldn't hide his distaste at having to sleep in such a filthy room.
~ for Joe had a profound distaste for violence. 
keep sth It is necessary to keep these two issues distinct.
analytically, conceptually, formally (= distinct in form), qualitatively Political power should be regarded as analytically distinct from economic power.
from The various dialects are quite distinct from one another. 
as distinct from She was studying lung cancer, as distinct from other types of cancer. 
extremely, highly, very The shell has a highly distinctive pattern.
by The animal is easily distinguishable by the black stripes above its eye.
from The male bird is barely distinguishable from the female. 
cause, create, lead to The wrong chemical balance can cause severe distortion of the photographic image.
gross, serious His report was attacked as a gross distortion of the truth.
become, get It's easy to get distracted when you're studying. 
a little, slightly, somewhat She seemed slightly distracted, as if something was worrying her.
momentarily Luke looked momentarily distracted. 
appear, be, look, seem, sound She sounded absolutely distraught.
remain Weeks after the accident she remained distraught.
leave sb His mother's death left him utterly distraught. 
at They were terribly distraught at the news of his accident. 
find sth I found the story deeply distressing. 
for The divorce was extremely distressing for the children. 
even, uniform After applying the cream, comb through to ensure even distribution.
uneven The country was noted for its uneven distribution of land resources.
broad, wide, widespread the broad distribution of Bronze Age artefacts across Europe the wider distribution of wealth throughout society
local, localized Fish populations assume highly localized distributions within each river.
achieve, ensure The engine is mounted in the middle to achieve a more even weight distribution.
determine Radiology was used to determine the distribution of the disease.
have, show (mathematics) These birds have a wide geographical distribution. IQs within the population show a normal distribution. 
pattern Animal herds may form in response to the distribution patterns of food.
free The document contains sensitive information and is not suitable for free (= unrestricted) distribution. The previously free (= not paid for) distribution of 
he publisher has signed an agreement for the exclusive distribution of the books in the US.
global, international, local, national, worldwide Roads are used for local distribution of goods.
control, handle, organize The company is to handle the distribution of the product in Europe.
agreement, arrangement, deal Her company has signed a non-exclusive distribution agreement.
list I attach a copy of the distribution list so you can see who got the last edition.
channel We have man
facilities The company wants to invest in new distribution facilities.
base, centre, depot, outlet, point The company has decided to use Belfast as its distribution base.
operation The company has manufacturing or distribution operations in 33 countries worldwide.
~ to The food was parcelled up for distribution to outlying communities. 
a/the chain of distribution There are savings to be made where retailers are bypassed in the chain of distribution.
make When are distributions likely to be made to creditors?
be available for These are company reserves available for distribution as the directors may determine. 
to The promissory notes were purchased for distribution to investors. 
neighbouring, surrounding Fire crews from all the surrounding districts helped to fight the fires in the city.
central Every city has its central business district.
administrative, electoral, federal, health, military, polling, postal a federal district court in New York He has been transferred to a hospital in a different health district. 
stretch Their district stretches nearly 150 miles, from the mountains to the sea. 
boundary Redrawing district boundaries would change the election results. 
in/within a/the ~ The hospital is only responsible for patients within its own district. 
cause, create, make The traffic causes serious disturbance to residents.
prevent She moved the nest very carefully to prevent disturbance to the birds. 
~ to Buildings should create minimum disturbance to the environment. 
serious The decision led to serious disturbances in all the country's main cities.
cause, give rise to, lead to, provoke, trigger (off) He was arrested and charged with causing a disturbance in a public place. An influx of refugees has triggered off disturbances.
be involved in Large numbers of workers involved in the disturbances have been arrested.
deal with, put down, quell Troops were brought in to put down the disturbance. 
during/in a/the ~ Several people were injured during a disturbance in the capital city.
~ among There had been violent disturbances among the prisoners.
a disturbance of the peace The government advocated strong action against Mussolini's disturbance of the peace. 
open The drainage system consisted of a few open ditches to facilitate run-off.
run The ditch ran parallel to the road.
surround sth His lettuce garden was surrounded by a deep ditch. 
in/into a ~ I tripped and fell into a muddy ditch. 
from She dived from the top diving board.
into He dived head first into the water.
go diving The main purpose of his holiday to Greece was to go diving. 
vertically Unlike some birds, it does not dive vertically. 
from, to The plane suddenly dived from 10,000 feet to 5,000. 
beneath, into He dived headlong into the ditch.
dive for cover We heard an explosion and dived for cover. 
considerable, enormous, extraordinary, great, immense, rich, wide There is need for greater diversity and choice in education. the rich diversity of the city's cultural life
encourage, promote Our party believes in encouraging cultural diversity, not division.
maintain, preserve, protect The producer was under pressure to maintain a diversity in his output.
allow (for) Tyrannies do not allow diversity and disagreement. 
~ of There is a wide diversity of views on this subject. 
broadly, roughly This report is divided broadly into two parts.
conveniently, neatly Railway enthusiasts divide neatly into two groups.
up The country is divided up into nine regions. 
into The children divided into three teams. 
among/amongst The money was divided equally among his sons.
between They divided their time between London and their country cottage. 
bitterly, deeply, hopelessly, seriously, sharply This issue has bitterly divided the community.
be divided about/on/over sth Cabinet ministers were deeply divided on the issue. 
display The crowd enjoyed a diving display before the swimming races.
bell A diving bell is usually used for operations below 50 metres. 
clear, distinct, simple Sometimes there is no simple division between good and evil.
make You can make a rough division of his music into ‘light’ and ‘serious’. 
among His will detailed his assets and gave instructions for their division among his children.
~ into In selling there is a broad division into direct and indirect methods. 
bitter, deep, great, sharp There are sharp divisions within the party over the privatization of the railways.
heal The prime minister's speech will attempt to heal divisions within his party. 
among There are reports of serious divisions among senior party members.
administrative the administrative divisions of the Roman Empire
in the … ~ They compete in the senior division of the chess league. 
do Can you do long division? 
apply for, ask for, file for, petition for, seek, sue for, want She filed for divorce in 1996.
get, obtain He told her that he was married but getting a divorce.
experience, go through She watched her parents go through an acrimonious divorce.
contest These days divorce is rarely contested.
grant (sb) Over 50,000 divorces were granted last year.
end in An increasing number of marriages end in divorce. 
come through He is waiting for the divorce to come through before he remarries. 
figures, rate, statistics The divorce rate has been growing steadily since 1971.
grounds for divorce He cited adultery as grounds for divorce. 
family, local Who is your family doctor?
NHS
register with You should register with a doctor as soon as possible.
call, fetch, get, send for We called the doctor immediately. (For more verbs see note.) > Note at DOCTOR 
atholic, Islamic, etc.
high He expounded traditional Calvinism with its high doctrine of church order (= its doctrine that church order is very important).
accept, adhere to, adopt, be committed to, believe (in), embrace, subscribe to, support, uphold They were all committed to the doctrine of social equality.
abandon, condemn, oppose, reject, undermine She rejected the traditional Christian doctrines.
reconcile Thompson reconciled the doctrine of heat with that of mechanics in 1851. 
allow sth Their doctrine allows the use of violence. 
in ~ The Church welcomed all who were considered sound in doctrine. 
film, radio, television/TV
make She has made a television documentary on poverty in our cities.
in a/the ~ There were some interesting interviews in the documentary.
party, political, religious The newspaper seeks to be independent of political dogma. 
question, reject People are beginning to question the old dogmas. 
Barbie
Russian 
Internet 
name Register a domain name if you want people to find your website.
in a/the ~, within a/the ~ This information is all in the public domain.
achieve, assert, assume, establish, exert, gain The firm soon achieved complete dominance in the marketplace.
have, maintain, retain The firm is determined to maintain dominance in the market.
challenge, undermine Ex-colonial countries began to challenge the cultural dominance of Europe. 
in black American dominance in heavyweight boxing
~ over He asserted his dominance over the other party members. 
completely, entirely, totally She completely dominated the conversation.
increasingly His work increasingly dominates his life.
public The project is funded by public donation.
give, make, send He made a generous donation to the charity.
in ~s The charity has received over $10 million in donations.
suitable The operation will go ahead as soon as a suitable donor can be found. 
donate sth, give sth Donors give blood twice a year. 
blood, organ Donor organs are constantly required for transplant operations.
anonymous The charity received £50,000 from an anonymous donor.
aid Japan has been one of the country's biggest aid donors. 
give sth, make a donation, pledge sth Donors pledged a total of $1,000 million in relief aid. 
to The species was doomed to extinction. 
doomed to disappointment/extinction/failure The project was doomed to failure from the start. 
answer He refused to answer the doorbell. 
ring, sound I heard the doorbell ring, and went to see who was there. 
test She was disqualified from competing for a year after failing a dope test. > Note at DRUG 
hefty, high, large, massive, strong a strong dose of painkillers (figurative) The film also contains a hefty dose of comedy.
receive, take patients who receive high doses of this drug I had forgotten to take my dose of antibiotic.
administer, give sb The nurse will administer the correct dose. She needs to be given a daily dose of the medicine.
more than Our profits have more than doubled this year.
almost, nearly, practically, virtually The price of houses has nearly doubled in the last ten years.
in The village has approximately doubled in size since 1960.
to The party almost doubled its share of the vote to 21.5%. 
seriously, very much I never seriously doubted his story.
privately Lee privately doubted the truth of this statement. 
knead, shape Knead the dough lightly, then shape it into a round loaf.
roll out, turn out Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface. 
rise Leave the dough to rise. 
in ~ We got caught in a torrential downpour. 
bring His family hoped that his bride would bring a large dowry. 
fitfully I dozed fitfully for a few hours. 
badly, poorly Some of the clauses in the contract had been very poorly drafted. 
thoroughly, well Remove the artichokes, drain thoroughly and allow to cool. well-drained soil 
of His voice was utterly drained of emotion. 
be/feel drained Sue felt exhausted and emotionally drained. 
suitably Her entrance was accompanied by suitably dramatic music. 
cold, icy A cold draught of air blew in from the open window. 
excluder, proofing Fit draught excluders to the bottoms of doors. 
accurately, beautifully, carefully, clearly, well a beautifully drawn picture He draws very well.
half, partly The blinds were partly drawn.
back She drew back the curtains and let the sunlight in.
aside, to one side I tried to draw him aside so I could talk to him in private.
together (figurative) The project enables students to draw together their knowledge, skills and experience. 
onto She drew me onto the balcony
out of He drew the cork out of the bottle.
to I drew my chair up to the fire.
inevitably, inexorably, irresistibly Her gaze was drawn irresistibly to the scene outside. 
from The scheme has drawn interest from local businessmen.
to We asked the surfing champion what first drew him to the sport. PHRASAL VERBS draw on/upon sth 
heavily The novelist draws heavily on her personal experiences. draw sth up 
professionally, properly Make sure the contract is properly drawn up. 
open, pull open/out, slide open She pulled open the second drawer down to find the money had gone.
close, push in/shut, shut He pushed the drawer shut with a bang.
reach into She reached into the drawer and found the key to the safe.
go through, look through, ransack, rummage in/through What do you think you are doing, rummaging through my drawers? 
from/out of a/the ~ She took the gun from the drawer.
in a/the ~ He put the letters in the drawer. 
Brooklyn, Southern, etc. 
in a ~ ‘Howdy, pardner,’ he said in his slow Texan drawl.
with a ~ She spoke with soft Southern drawl. 
great, mortal Her greatest dread was that she would lose her job.
feel, have He had a dread of hospitals. the dread she felt at the thought of meeting him again
live in He lived in constant dread that one day he might be found out.
fill sb with Does the thought of flying fill you with dread? 
in ~ of After her shoplifting spree she lived in mortal dread of being found out.
be, feel, look, smell, sound, taste Poor thing! You look absolutely dreadful! (= very ill) 
really I feel really dreadful about letting you down.
absolutely, quite, truly To be honest, her singing was quite dreadful. a truly dreadful hat
for It must have been dreadful for you! 
always As a child she always dreamt of working with animals.
never I never dreamt I'd actually get the job.
long People have long dreamt of an egalitarian society.
just, only It was the kind of trip most of us can only dream about. 
wouldn't I wouldn't dream of going without you (= I would never go without you). 
in He dressed carefully in the brown suit he had been married in. 
be fully dressed She lay down on her bed, fully dressed.
get dressed She got dressed quickly. 
beautifully, elegantly, fashionably, immaculately, impeccably, neatly, nicely, smartly, well Susan always dresses very elegantly. She was determined to be the best dressed woman at the wedding.
identically The twins were dressed identically. 
for I have to dress smartly for work.
in The women were all dressed in blue skirts and white blouses. 
~ (back) to As the strike went on, there was a gradual drift back to work.
catch, follow, get I didn't follow the speech exactly, but I caught the main drift of what was being said.
lose I lost the drift of what she was saying. 
cold, cool, iced, refreshing I could do with a nice cool drink.
long She took a long drink of cold water.
welcome You will be offered a welcome drink on arrival at the hotel.
leisurely We were enjoying a leisurely drink before dinner.
round We ordered a round of drinks while waiting for a table. 
drink, have I'll just drink my drink then we can go. She had a hot drink and went to bed.
down, finish, knock back He knocked back his drink in one go and ordered another one.
take He took a drink of his beer and sat down.
go for Would you like to go for a drink after work?
buy (sb), get (sb), offer (sb), order (sb) Can I buy you a drink?
pour (sb), serve (sb) He poured himself a stiff drink to calm his nerves.
spike The robbers spiked his drink before taking his wallet and passport.
drive sb to Her money problems drove her to drink (= made her start drinking a lot of alcohol).
turn to After his wife died, he turned to drink. 
drinks party We've been invited to a drinks party.
drinks cabinet/cupboard She took a bottle from the drinks cabinet.
problem She suspected her boss had a drink problem. 
in a/the ~ Do you want ice in your drink?
~ of I'll have a drink of milk, please. 
habitual, hard, heavy This liver condition is common in heavy drinkers.
social She is a social drinker only?she never drinks at home.
beer, coffee, tea, etc. I'm not a big tea drinker. 
catch There were buckets to catch the drips from the ceiling. 
fall Drips fell from the roof of the cave. 
be attached to, be on He is on a saline drip.
take sb off He was taken off his drip last night. 
fast, quickly You shouldn't drive so fast! She drove quickly back to the office.
recklessly He was arrested for driving recklessly.
around, away, back, off, on She got into the car and drove away. 
from, to driving from London to Manchester 
fall Light drizzle fell all afternoon. 
in/through a/the ~ We walked home through the drizzle. 
suffer The restaurant has suffered a big drop in trade.
in The glut of coffee led to a sharp drop in prices. 
sheer, steep, vertical The cliff plunged in a sheer drop down to the beach.
fall Great drops of rain started to fall.
of Large drops of sweat rolled down her face. 
severe, terrible, worst It has been the worst drought in the country's history.
have England has had several summer droughts in recent years.
break A week of good rains has broken the drought. 
affect sth Large areas of Africa are affected by severe drought. 
during/in ~ Some of the newer plants in the garden died during the drought. 
a roll of drums > Special page at MUSIC 
become, get, go, run Come into the warm and get dry, both of you. Ruth felt her mouth go dry. The wells in most villages in the region have run dry. (figurative) Vaccine supplies started to run dry as the flu outbreak reached epidemic proportions.
keep, remain, stay We managed to keep dry by huddling in a doorway. There is every prospect of the weather remaining dry this week.
pat sb/sth, rub sb/sth, towel sb Rinse the mushrooms and pat dry. He towelled himself dry.
bleed sb, milk sb, squeeze sb, suck sb (all figurative) The big corporations are bleeding some of these small countries dry (= taking all their money).
keep sth This type of wound is best kept dry without a dressing. 
bone, completely, perfectly, quite, thoroughly, totally The river was bone dry. Make sure the paint is thoroughly dry.
barely, hardly, scarcely (often figurative) The ink was scarcely dry on the ceasefire agreement before fighting broke out again.
mainly, mostly The day will start bright and mainly dry.
morally It sounds a morally dubious proposition. 
become, be struck They were struck dumb by some sort of shock. 
with She sat there, dumb with rage. 
be, feel, look, seem, sound I'm sure my question sounded really dumb.
act, play I decided to act dumb. 
illegally The firm had illegally dumped toxic waste.
unceremoniously They carried him down to the beach and dumped him unceremoniously in the freezing water.
down He dumped the boxes down in the kitchen. 
exactly The original experiment cannot be exactly duplicated.
simply I wanted to avoid simply duplicating work that had already been done. 
overall, total We took four trains, and the overall duration of the journey was 72 hours.
for the ~ (of) She stayed there for the duration of the journey.
of … ~ The next contract will be of shorter duration.
throughout the ~ of This continued throughout the duration of their marriage. 
cloud, layer The tractor came up the track in a cloud of dust. There was a layer of fine dust on the table.
particle, speck Remove any particles of dust on the surface of the paint. microscopic specks of dust 
gather Her chess set lay on a shelf gathering dust.
lie The dust now lay in a thick layer on her piano. 
contractual, legal, mandatory, statutory Retailers have a statutory duty to provide goods suitable for their purpose.
civic, public I feel it is my civic duty to vote.
ethical, moral He felt it was his moral duty to help his neighbour.
absolute, bounden, fundamental, sacred, solemn I feel it's my bounden duty to try and help her. 
have, owe (law) You have a legal duty to take reasonable care. The railway company owes a duty of care to all its customers.
carry out, do, fulfil, meet, perform She put down the phone and went out, her duty done. She felt she had fulfilled her duty by providing him with a son.
fail in He had failed in his duty towards his daughter.
neglect, shirk I'd be shirking my duty if I didn't warn him.
assign, charge sb with, impose It was a duty imposed by her father.
assume, take on He took on the duty of maintaining the family home. 
call I wanted to stop and chat, but duty called and I went back to the office. 
under a/the ~ You are under a statutory duty to keep accurate records.
~ of It's the duty of each and every one of us to do their best for the team. They have a duty of confidentiality.
~ to, ~ towards They have a duty to their parents to work hard. 
a breach of duty It was a clear breach of professional duty.
do your duty I suppose we'd better do our duty and report the accident.
do your duty by sb You feel that you have to do your duty by your children.
be duty bound to do sth An employer is not duty bound to provide a reference when an employee leaves.
(above and) beyond the call of duty The time he put in helping new recruits went beyond the call of duty.
feel it your duty to do sth I felt it my duty to go to the police.
in breach of a duty (formal) It was ruled that the injured man was in breach of his duty by not wearing the safety equipment provided.
a sense of duty I did it out of a sense of duty. 
light When I returned to work after my illness I was put on light duties.
have The members of staff each have their own duties.
carry out, discharge, do, perform She was unable to carry out her duties because she was too ill.
come on, go on, report for Colleagues became suspicious when he failed to report for duty.
come off, go off What time do you go off duty?
neglect, shirk He was accused of neglecting his professional duties.
resume, return to He leaves hospital tomorrow and is expected to resume his duties at the beginning of next month.
be released from Her son was released from duty in the army to visit her in hospital.
be relieved of, be suspended from When he failed to turn up for training, he was relieved of his duties as captain. 
doctor, nurse, officer, pharmacist He went to the police station and spoke to the duty officer. 
off ~ I'm off duty tomorrow night.
on ~ You're not allowed to drink alcohol on duty. 
the execution/performance of your duties The company is liable if you are injured during the execution of your duty. 
alcohol, fuel, tobacco, etc. Tobacco duty is a major source of revenue for the government.
amount We tried to estimate the amount of duty we would have to pay. 
put on, slap on They are going to put duty on foreign cars.
increase, put up, raise They're going to put up the duty on tobacco.
avoid, evade They claim that the wine is for personal use and so evade the duty.
be liable to Perfume is liable to import duty.
carry Cider carries duty at the lower rate.
be exempt from Beer for personal use is exempt from duty. 
in ~ By changing its supplier, the company saved thousands of pounds in import duty.
~ on You have to pay duty on all electrical goods. 
fast, quickly, rapidly Supplies of coal are dwindling fast.
away Membership of the club had dwindled away to nothing. 
to Profits slowly dwindled to nothing. 
remain The business has managed to change and remain dynamic. 
highly, truly These countries are characterized by highly dynamic economies.
essentially, fundamentally The process is essentially dynamic with ideas and feedback flowing both ways. 
ancient Scotland's ancient dynasty
ruling the ruling dynasties of the Visigoths 
during a/the ~ a porcelain figure made during the Tang dynasty
under a/the ~ The civil service was established under the previous dynasty. 
the end/fall of a dynasty, the founder of a dynasty, a member of a dynasty, the rise of a dynasty the rise and fall of the Habsburg dynasty 
only too, really, very They were only too eager to help us.
for We were eager for news. 
torn Blood from his torn ear was soaking his collar.
sharp His sharp ears had picked up the uncertainty in her voice.
trained To the trained ear the calls of these birds sound quite different.
listening In the silence everyone seemed to be aware of listening ears.
receptive, sympathetic She did not like the scheme, as she made clear every time she found a receptive ear (= sb willing to listen). The counsellor provided a sympathetic ear for students with problems. 
plug He plugged his ears with tissue paper to drown out the music.
close, shut, stop At first I stopped my ears to what I did not want to hear.
strain I strained my ears to catch the conversation in the other room.
prick up The dog pricked up its ears.
flatten, lay back, put back A horse may show annoyance by putting its ears back.
pierce I've just had my ears pierced so I'm going to buy some earrings.
syringe He could hear much better after having his ears syringed.
echo in, ring in The voices buzzing all around echoed in her ears. He went home with the teacher's warning ringing in his ears.
reach If news of the break-in reaches the boss's ears, we're in trouble. 
hear sth, pick sth up When the notes are played so close together the ear hears no space between them.
prick (up), twitch His ears pricked up when he heard his name mentioned.
be alert He waited in the darkness, his ears alert for the slightest sound.
strain She stood outside the room, her ears straining to hear what they were saying.
pop If you suck a sweet as the plane takes off it stops your ears popping.
ring The explosion set my ears ringing and even made me jump a bit. 
flap, muffs She put on her ear muffs and went out into the snow.
in your ~ ‘Taxi?’ said a voice in my ear. 
beam/grin/smile from ear to ear, can't believe your ears She actually apologized. I couldn't believe my ears!
(drop/have) a word in sb's ear Drop a quiet word in her ear about it before it's too late.
fall on deaf ears Their complaints about the poor service fell on deaf ears (= were ignored).
by ~ She usually plays the guitar by ear, rather than reading the music.
~ for He has a good ear for accents and can usually tell where a speaker comes from. 
a bit, fairly, a little, quite, rather, relatively I'm sorry I'm a bit early.
surprisingly These discoveries were made at a surprisingly early date. 
for It's a little early for lunch.
in He discovered these pleasures early in life. 
after-tax, net Her net earnings last year were £15,000. 
level Levels of earnings are still rising. 
have People with a university education tend to have higher earnings than those with a basic education.
declare You must declare all earnings to the tax office.
from Germany's earnings from exports rose by 2%.
loss of earnings She is also claiming compensation for loss of earnings. > Note at PERCENT (for more verbs) > Special page at BUSINESS 
pair She wore a pair of dangly earrings. 
happen, hit sth, occur, strike (sth) The earthquake hit the city at two in the morning.
shake sth The earthquake shook buildings throughout the business district.
measure sth an earthquake measuring 5.8 on the Richter scale 
in a/the ~ The block of flats was destroyed in an earthquake. 
considerably, greatly The situation would be considerably eased if more money were made available.
away The pain in my leg gradually eased away. 
help (to) The new road should help ease traffic problems.
begin to Tensions between the two countries are beginning to ease.
away, back, down, forward, etc. Jean eased back on the pillows and relaxed. 
away from, into He eased himself into the driving seat.
out of She carefully eased the car out of the garage 
become, get Life is getting easier for us.
make sth These changes should make your job easier.
find sth I found the exam quite easy. 
enough, fairly, quite, rather, relatively It is easy enough to see how it happened.
incredibly, ridiculously, surprisingly The written test was ridiculously easy. 
for Writing is not easy for her. 
all too easy It was all too easy to forget why we had been sent there.
the easiest thing in the world It is the easiest thing in the world to blame your parents.
be no easy task Contacting everyone was no easy task.
big, good, great, hearty All my children are big eaters.
fussy, picky He eats anything?he's not a fussy eater.
away He knew that his life was ebbing away. 
begin to Her strength began to ebb.
clear, distinct, strong (often figurative) There are distinct echoes of Elvis Presley in his vocal style.
returning The bat compares the sound of its cry with the sound of the returning echo. 
hear, listen for/to We could just hear a faint echo.
produce, send back, send out Their footsteps on the bare boards sent out hollow echoes.
find (figurative) The political upheavals find an echo in the art of the time. 
sound A faint echo sounded in the cave.
die (away) The echo slowly died away.
come back, return An echo came back from the walls of the building. 
be, seem Solid fuel would be more economical. 
extremely, highly, remarkably, very This new oven is highly economical.
in This arrangement is more economical in its use of staff.
with This arrangement is more economical with space. 
classical, free-market, Keynesian, liberal, neo-classical
agricultural, business, development, environmental, health, political > Note at JOB 
~ at Kate closed her eyes in ecstasy at the thought of a cold drink.
~ over I was in sheer ecstasy over the prospect of meeting my idol. 
tablet > Note at DRUG(for more verbs and nouns) 
very Erosion has left the house perched on the very edge of the cliff.
cliff, water's A row of boats was beached at the water's edge. 
reach We had reached the edge of the map and didn't know which way to go.
skirt The road skirts the western edge of the forest. 
along the ~, around/round the ~ Smoke was making its way around the edges of the door.
at the ~ Soon we were at the edge of the woods.
on the ~ She sat on the edge of her bed.
over the ~ The car rolled over the edge of the cliff. 
right on the edge They live right on the edge of town. 
over The intensive training she had done gave her the edge over the other runners. 
limited, special The book appeared in a limited edition of 3,000.
abridged They have brought out an abridged edition of the encyclopedia.
critical a critical edition of Shakespeare's plays
facsimile a facsimile edition of Dr Johnson's Dictionary of 1755
morning, evening The story made it into the evening edition of the newspaper. 
appear, be out, come out The first edition of the newspaper appeared in 1859. 
in a … ~ The encyclopedia will shortly be out in a revised edition.
~ of the November edition of ‘Vogue’ 
carry, publish, run The paper only occasionally carries editorials. The newspaper ran a hard-hitting editorial criticizing the government's economic policies. 
in an/the ~ He declared his support for the minister in an editorial.
formal Although he had had little formal education, he could read and write well.
have, receive He was at a disadvantage because of the poor education he had received.
give sb, provide (sb with) The school provides an excellent all-round education.
continue, extend She went to college to continue her education.
complete, finish He went to America to complete his education. 
campaign, initiative, programme, project, scheme The council has launched a new health education campaign.
through ~ We acquire much of our world knowledge through education.
full The full effects of the new tax have not yet been felt.
adverse, catastrophic, crippling, damaging, debilitating, deleterious, destructive, detrimental, devastating, disastrous, harmful, ill, negative, serious, traumatic, undesirable, unfortunate the crippling effect of sanctions on the economy He didn't seem to have suffered any ill effects from his fall.
the desired We had problems with mosquitoes, but this spray had the desired effect.
magical, remarkable Giving up smoking had a magical effect on his stamina.
domino, knock-on, ripple, spin-off Any delay in delivery of materials will have a knock-on effect throughout the production process. (see also side effect)
deterrent, disincentive The deterrent effect of the death penalty has long been questioned. Heavy taxation has a disincentive effect.
bring about, exert, have, produce The drug exerts a powerful effect on the brain.
take The medicine started to take effect after a few minutes.
feel, experience, suffer (from) Women feel the effects of alcohol more quickly than men.
aim at That is precisely the effect I was aiming at.
wear off How soon will the effects of the drug wear off? 
in ~ The border closure meant, in effect, that no trade took place between the countries.
to this/that ~ They told us to go away, or words to that effect.
with … ~ The plague struck London again with devastating effect.
~ on/upon The dry weather had an adverse effect on the potato crops. 
to little/no effect The air-conditioning came on, to little effect. 
come into The new regulations come into effect next month.
bring sth into, put sth into The recommendations will soon be put into effect. 
in ~ Some laws from the eighteenth century are still in effect.
with ~ The bank has cut interest rates with immediate effect. 
the desired I found that by adding white I could achieve the desired effect.
overall The overall effect of the painting is overwhelming. 
give (sth), have The stage lighting gives the effect of a moonlit scene.
enhance, heighten The dramatic effect was heightened by her black dress and dead white face.
for … ~ ‘You know why I'm here?’ Doug paused for maximum effect.
to … ~ She uses animal sounds to startling effect in her music. 
cost This hard-wearing material combines cost effectiveness with quality. 
demonstrate The exam results demonstrated the effectiveness of personal tuition.
lose The drugs work well at first but gradually lose their effectiveness. 
as They're doing tests to evaluate the effectiveness of this herb as an antiseptic.
fully, perfectly The procedure is not fully efficient: improvements could be made. We already have a perfectly efficient system?why change it?
briskly, quietly The receptionist was briskly efficient. A quietly efficient manservant brought them coffee and brandy.
formidably, incredibly, superbly, supremely His secretary was formidably efficient: her minutes were works of art.
at Their equipment was not as efficient at finding gold as today's machinery.
in The heating system is very efficient in its use of of fuel. 
appear, be, look, seem Burton made the jump look effortless. 
bolster, boost, feed, flatter, massage She likes to mix with people who flatter her ego.
bruise, damage, deflate, dent, wound He was lucky to escape with just a bruised ego when he fell off his bike. 
a blow to your ego It was a huge blow to his ego to find out he was so unpopular.
be, look, seem, sound The plans looked very elaborate.
length, piece The trousers are held up by a length of elastic around the waist. 
break, go, snap The elastic in these socks has gone. 
at She showed her elation at having finally achieved her ambition. 
a feeling/mood/sense/surge of elation I felt a strange sense of elation.
annually Members of the council are elected annually.
directly, indirectly It was decided that the president should be elected directly in free elections.
to She has been elected to Parliament. 
be/get elected What changes will he make if he gets elected?
be declared elected Any candidate with more than half the votes shall be declared elected.
be elected unopposed Five were successful, three being elected unopposed.
choose sb, vote (for sb) Not all the registered electors actually voted. 
the register of electors If your name is not on the register of electors, you will not be able to vote. 
off-peak We run the washing machine at night because off-peak electricity is much cheaper. 
provide, supply The hydroelectric plant provides electricity for half the island's population.
conduct Metals conduct electricity well.
cut off, disconnect Her electricity was cut off when she didn't pay her bill.
save I switched the light off to save electricity. 
flow Electricity flows through the wires in the circuit. 
bill Insulating your house could cut your electricity bill by half.
grid The village will soon be connected to the national electricity grid.
sartorial John has never been known for his sartorial elegance. 
touch The ornamental ironwork lends a touch of elegance to the house. 
display, have The building has great elegance and charm.
add, give sth, lend sth The pillars give a classical elegance to the room. 
dominant The promise of tax cuts became the dominant element in the campaign.
considerable, large There is a considerable element of danger in her job.
competitive There is too much of a competitive element in the sales department.
racial, sexual Police say there may have been a racial element to the attacks. 
contain, have, include, involve These rumours do contain an element of truth.
in This constitutes one of the key elements in this reform programme.
~ of Practical work will form a major element of the syllabus. There may have been an element of jealousy in her response. 
brave I put on my thick coat ready to brave the elements.
battle (against) He told us stories of how he had battled the elements on his mountaineering trips.
be exposed to, be open to The place was completely exposed to the elements.
altogether, completely, entirely, totally The risk cannot be eliminated altogether. This procedure does not completely eliminate the possibility of an accident.
effectively Getting this job has effectively eliminated his financial worries. 
be designed to The single market is designed to eliminate barriers to the free movement of goods, services and people.
from Try to eliminate fatty foods from your diet. 
become, grow, wax He waxed eloquent about her talents as an actress. 
about, on He grew quite eloquent on the subject. 
lift The government has agreed to lift the embargo imposed ten years ago.
break, violate We knew the arms embargo was being broken. 
a bit, faintly, a little, quite, rather, slightly, somewhat He looked a bit embarrassed.
about She's embarrassed about her height.
at He felt acutely embarrassed at being the centre of attention.
by She seemed almost embarrassed by her own outburst.
for His colour had risen and Isobel felt embarrassed for him. 
slight She smiled to hide her slight embarrassment.
feel I felt some embarrassment as we shook hands.
avoid The government wishes to avoid further embarrassment over the affair.
blush/flush with, giggle with, squirm with I still squirm with embarrassment at the thought of it.
die from/of (figurative) I could have died of embarrassment when I saw her standing behind me.
save sb, spare sb Helen changed the subject to save me the embarrassment of replying. 
in ~ We all watched in silent embarrassment as Mr Rogers started to cry.
with/without ~ I could finally talk about my problem without embarrassment.
much) to sb's embarrassment Much to his embarrassment, Mike realized that a small crowd was watching him.
feelings of embarrassment, a flush of embarrassment A flush of embarrassment came to her cheeks.
be, become, prove The protests were becoming something of an embarrassment to the government.
for The episode was a huge embarrassment for all concerned.
~ to The poor child was considered an embarrassment to his family. 
in/within These ideas are deeply embedded in our culture. 
tightly, warmly He rose from his chair and embraced her warmly. 
fully, genuinely the only party which fully embraces the concept of a united Europe
enthusiastically, wholeheartedly, with enthusiasm She embraced the feminist cause with enthusiasm. 
implant Two or three embryos are implanted into the woman's body. 
lead to Conditions after the war led to the emergence of a new type of political party.
see, witness The last decade saw the emergence of a dynamic economy.
encourage The annual competition has encouraged the emergence of several talented young musicians.
wave He called for a halt to the recent wave of emigration. 
from emigration from Europe to America
conflicting, contradictory, mixed, tangled She felt torn by conflicting emotions.
destructive, negative Counselling can teach people to handle negative emotions such as fear and anger.
fragile The nurse was handling his fragile emotions very carefully.
pent-up, suppressed Years of pent-up emotion came out as he sobbed.
human Fear is a normal human emotion. 
flicker, hint, trace There wasn't a hint of emotion in his eyes.
flood, rush, surge, wave She felt a sudden rush of emotion at the thought of seeing him again.
display She could not cope with such public displays of emotion. 
experience, feel the emotions that we experience as children He felt no emotion as she left.
be choked with, be filled with, be overcome with Her voice was choked with emotion.
display, express, show Drama can help children to express their emotions. The woman's face showed no emotion.
release Releasing these emotions is part of the healing process.
shake with, tremble with She realized she was shaking all over with emotion.
confront Counsellors encourage victims of crime to confront their emotions.
with/without ~ She spoke with deep emotion. 
depth/intensity of emotion The film has a surprising depth of emotion for a comedy.
a gamut/range of emotions Her performance in the play covered the whole gamut of emotions. 
highly, powerfully, very He raised the highly emotive issue of bullfighting.
crown sb Charlemagne was crowned Emperor on Christmas Day 800 AD. 
under an/the ~ It was under the emperor Justinian that these advances were made.
~ of the emperor of Japan 
rightly The new law rightly emphasizes parental responsibility. 
must, should I must emphasize that this is only a summary, and the full report will not be available until next week.
be important to It is important to emphasize this point.
seem to, serve to, tend to All the arguments and counter-arguments serve to emphasize the controversy surrounding this disease.
be at pains to, be keen to I have been at pains to emphasize the positive aspects of discipline. 
dismantle The Japanese empire was quickly dismantled.
lose By now Britain had lost its empire. 
collapse, crumble, disintegrate The mighty empire finally crumbled. 
little (= used to criticize sb's attitude to the things they control) All the bureaucrats jealously guarded their own little empires.
build (up), create He has built a huge business empire from humble beginnings. 
have The company has only 60 employees.
dismiss, lay off, make redundant, sack a fair reason for dismissing an employee The company made hundreds of employees redundant. 
benefits In addition to a competitive salary, the company offers attractive employee benefits.
status Freelance workers do not enjoy the benefits of employee status.
gainful, meaningful The company was one of the first to offer meaningful employment to the blind.
full, total The government aims to achieve full employment within three years.
large-scale Steel making is the only local industry offering large-scale employment.
find, gain, get, obtain, secure He finally secured employment in a local factory.
take up (formal) He took up employment with the company in May 2002.
give up, lose She lost her employment when the firm closed.
create, generate, provide This investment will certainly create employment in the area. The steelworks provided employment for thousands of people.
opportunities, possibilities, prospects There are few employment prospects in the town for unqualified young people.
status The survey studied the employment status and lifestyle of people within the community.
practices The firm's employment practices have been widely criticized. 
in ~ Most of last year's graduates are now in employment.
out of ~ She had been out of employment for three years. 
a contract of employment, patterns/trends of employment significant changes in patterns of employment > Special page at BUSINESS 
completely The cupboards had all been completely emptied.
out We emptied out the tank. 
of He emptied the bottle of its contents. 
half The hall half emptied as bored businessmen raced for the buffet tables.
out The room gradually emptied out. 
into The castle had a deep moat which emptied into the lake.
of The streets soon emptied of shoppers. 
give, play, take The singer gave four encores. He took several encores before the crowd finally began to leave.
get You'll never get an encore if you perform like that!
call for The audience called for an encore. 
as/for an ~ For an encore, he sang an unaccompanied folk song. 
commonly, frequently, often, regularly Walruses were commonly encountered in the Shetland Islands until quite recently.
be likely to What are the difficulties you are most likely to encounter? 
the slightest Given the slightest encouragement, he'd be on his knees swearing eternal devotion. 
give sb, offer (sb), provide (sb with) Mick was always ready to offer advice and encouragement.
draw, get, have, receive, take I draw great encouragement from the fact that the classroom is always full. 
with ~ With a bit of encouragement, she could do really well.
~ by/from You need encouragement from people who understand what you are trying to do.
~ to Getting the support of the Queen was a great encouragement to those involved in the project. 
words of encouragement Perhaps I can offer a few words of encouragement to those who did not win any prizes this time. 
in an/the ~ I looked the Civil War up in my encyclopedia. 
an entry in an encyclopedia There are over 20,000 entries in the encyclopedia. 
abruptly, suddenly The meeting ended abruptly when the chairman was called away.
at last, eventually, finally At last the war ended.
all but, effectively, virtually A back injury effectively ended her career.
inconclusively The peace talks have ended inconclusively, with neither side prepared to give way on key points.
in The attempt finally ended in failure.
with The show ended with a song. 
end in disaster The military action could end in disaster.
end in tears (figurative) After all that excitement the day was bound to end in tears (= unhappily). 
not) be calculated to ‘All better now, are we?’ he enquired in a patronizing manner hardly calculated to endear. 
to She had an unfriendly manner which did not exactly endear her to her colleagues. 
fairy-tale The crowd cheered on the unknown Tunisian, hoping for a fairy-tale ending to the race.
perfect The meal was the perfect ending to a great weekend.
abrupt I was surprised by the abrupt ending to the conversation. 
have The book has a sad ending. 
to This is a happy ending to a rather sad story. 
broadly The government has broadly endorsed a research paper proposing new educational targets for 14-year-olds.
explicitly, implicitly The plan does not explicitly endorse the private ownership of land.
have, show She showed great endurance in the face of pain.
test The astronauts will undergo a series of trials to test their physical and mental endurance in space.
build (up) Swimming a little further each session will build endurance. 
beyond ~ This behaviour is beyond endurance. 
a feat of endurance They are capable of amazing feats of endurance.
the limit/limits of your endurance She was almost at the limits of her endurance.
powers of endurance The task was a test of their powers of endurance.
a test of endurance Running a marathon is seen by many as the ultimate test of endurance. 
extremely, highly, really, remarkably, very Quasars are the highly energetic cores of distant galaxies. She seems remarkably energetic for a woman her age.
quite I'm feeling quite energetic today. 
fully, properly, rigidly, rigorously, strictly, vigorously The rules were strictly enforced.
can/cannot, could/could not The ban cannot be legally enforced.
seek to, take steps to The government may take steps to enforce compliance with the new measures.
with acknowledging the need to engage directly with these problems PHRASAL VERBS engage (sb) in sth 
attempt to, seek to, try to He tried to engage me in conversation.
previous, prior Mrs Spratt regrets that she is unable to attend owing to a previous engagement.
keep It is important that I keep this engagement.
carry out (formal) The prime minister will carry out no official public engagements during the month of August.
cancel, fail to keep The president fell ill and was forced to cancel all public engagements. 
with He had an important engagement with his financial adviser. 
to He announced his engagement to his long-time girlfriend. 
chartered, qualified, skilled, trained You need the advice of a qualified engineer.
produce, train Britain isn't producing enough engineers. > Note at PROFESSIONAL(for more verbs) 
call in/out > Note at JOB(for more verbs) 
piece The bridge is a fine piece of engineering. 
work/works Train services on Sunday will be restricted, because of engineering works. 
a feat of engineering The new building is a remarkable feat of engineering. > Note at SUBJECT(for more verbs and nouns) 
in He seemed completely engrossed in his book. 
highly, very His reply was highly enigmatic.
make sth I always try to make my lessons enjoyable.
enormously, extremely, highly, hugely, immensely, most, really, very We had a most enjoyable evening.
considerably, greatly The castle was enlarged considerably in the fifteenth century.
seek to The gallery is seeking to enlarge its holdings of Danish art. 
appreciate, grasp, realize It's difficult to grasp the sheer enormity of the tragedy.
bring home Her words brought home the enormity of what was happening. 
joint a joint enquiry undertaken by the Department of Health and the Dental Association
announce The governor announced an enquiry into the events.
initiate, launch, open (up), set up, start Police have launched a murder enquiry.
call for Local MPs are calling for a full independent enquiry into the way the police handled the affair.
demand, order The government has ordered a public enquiry into the affair.
be subjected to, face You may be subjected to a disciplinary enquiry.
chair, head, lead The enquiry will be chaired by a judge. 
be underway, take place A major enquiry is underway after the death of a union official. The enquiry will take place behind closed doors.
hear sth The enquiry heard this week that the crash was unavoidable.
conclude sth, establish sth, find sth An enquiry found that the vintage plane was in good working order.
rule sth The enquiry ruled that the cars should be fitted with bigger bumpers.
at an/the ~ At the enquiry the minister maintained that nothing illegal had been done.
pending an ~ The director has been suspended on full pay, pending an internal enquiry.
~ by an enquiry by the Charity Commission
the outcome/result of an enquiry, the subject of an enquiry He now finds himself the subject of an enquiry after reports of financial irregularities. 
exhaustive, extensive, thorough I've made exhaustive enquiries, but haven't been able to find what I want.
general Our national enquiry centre is open every day and can help you with all your general enquiries.
flood, stream After the disaster, the police had a flood of enquiries about missing relatives. 
make, pursue, direct, undertake The police are still pursuing their enquiries. The committee directed its enquiries to Mrs Taylor.
welcome The faculty welcomes enquiries from prospective entrants.
assist (sb) in/with, help (sb) in/with Police believe he can help them with their enquiries into a robbery. 
form You are requested to complete an enquiry form. 
pending an/the ~ She has been released on bail pending further enquiries.
~ about/as to/concerning/regarding/relating to/with regard to enquiries as to the whereabouts of Erin Smith
~ into I'm making enquiries into the possibility of going by train. 
historical, philosophical, scientific, sociological The purpose is one of scientific enquiry. 
encourage The subjects on the curriculum encourage intellectual enquiry. 
an area of enquiry The purpose of the research is to put this area of enquiry on a sound experimental footing.
a board/commission/committee of enquiry, a line of enquiry No one has yet been arrested but the police have assured us that all possible lines of enquiry are being pursued.
a method of enquiry Methods of enquiry vary from subject to subject.
a spirit of enquiry Children are born with a spirit of enquiry. 
take action/care/steps to We must take steps now to ensure the survival of these animals.
be important to, be necessary to, be sufficient to It is important to ensure that delegates have been properly briefed. 
become, get The fishing lines had become hopelessly entangled. 
in He became entangled in legal disputes.
with Sara had got entangled with some political group. 
common, cooperative, joint The programme is a joint enterprise with the National Business School. 
embark on/upon, start, undertake They are willing to undertake a new enterprise.
in an/the ~ The team leader will be the most important factor in this difficult enterprise. 
control, manage, run He runs a successful small enterprise.
free, private The Act will encourage private enterprise.
culture The government has promoted the small firm and the 
great I thought she showed great enterprise. 
make sth He tried to make his speech more entertaining.
find sth The others seemed to find my discomfort hugely entertaining. 
extremely, highly, hugely, marvellously, vastly, very, wonderfully It was highly entertaining for the people around them.
be enthralled by/with sth They were enthralled with the play.
hold/keep sb enthralled She kept her audience enthralled throughout her twenty-minute performance.
listen/watch enthralled The children listened enthralled as the storyteller unfolded her tale. 
all, extremely, highly, immensely, incredibly, really, very, wildly She's all enthusiastic about China now that she's been there. The audience was wildly enthusiastic.
less than, not overly, not particularly Mrs Neil did not seem particularly enthusiastic about her job.
largely Film critics are largely enthusiastic about the thriller.
about He was quite enthusiastic about the idea.
use While the front door is being repaired, please use the side entrance.
mark The little porch marked the entrance to a churchyard.
have The building has only one entrance.
block She stood firm, blocking the entrance. 
at the ~, by a/the ~ The band left by the rear entrance to escape photographers.
in the ~ She stood in the entrance to the ward.
through the ~ Go through the main entrance into the yard.
~ from There is a back entrance from West Street.
~ to He was waiting at the entrance to the cave. 
make She made a grand entrance once all the guests were assembled.
gain Some of the protesters tried to gain entrance to the meeting. 
self-addressed, stamped addressed Please enclose a stamped addressed envelope if you would like a reply.
post-paid, pre-paid, reply-paid To apply, use the enclosed reply-paid envelope (no stamp needed).
open, rip open, slit open, steam open, tear open The letter was suspicious, and I considered steaming open the envelope.
address, mark an envelope addressed in my mother's round handwriting The envelope was marked ‘Personal’.
in an/the ~ I had put the letter in the wrong envelope.
into an/the ~ He quickly stuffed the money back into the envelope.
on an/the ~ I couldn't read the address on the envelope.
~ of He gave her the envelope of certificates. 
the back of an envelope I scribbled his phone number on the back of an envelope. 
immediate Cold-blooded animals depend on the temperature of their immediate environment.
favourable This period provided a favourable environment for the spread of communism.
fragile Walkers can unwittingly damage the fragile environment in which the birds live.
domestic, family, home Children learn best in their home environment.
office, work, working, workplace A comfortable working environment will increase productivity.
economic, financial Investors are showing more caution in the current economic environment.
business, commercial, corporate She now had to transfer her design skills to a commercial environment.
explore The cat walked round, exploring its new environment. 
preserve, protect, safeguard The government should do more to protect the environment.
harmful to the environment The label identifies the products that are least 
UN/United Nations
American, British, etc. 
appoint (sb as) The government has not yet appointed an envoy to the area.
dispatch, send A special peace envoy was sent to the area. 
from a special envoy from the American president
~ to He served as envoy to the French government. 
for I secretly envied her for her good looks. 
latest She has only told you about the latest episode in a long history of mental illness. 
~ in an extraordinary episode in American history 
the entire/whole episode He says he just wants to forget the whole unfortunate episode. 
exciting, thrilling Don't miss next week's exciting episode!
film, make The next episode has not yet been filmed. 
during/in an/the ~ It happened in the final episode of ‘Star Trek’. 
mark The dropping of the first atom bomb marked a new epoch in warfare. 
regard sb as, treat sb as He did not regard himself as her intellectual equal. 
as an ~ He talks even to small children as equals.
between ~s An interview should be a conversation between equals.
without ~ His guitar playing is without equal. 
be sb's equal I shall never be his equal at chess.
first among equals He was regarded as the ‘first among equals’ by the other office clerks.
have few equals When it comes to plain speaking, she has few equals.
have no equal In fighting, they had no equals. 
directly The constellations in the night sky cannot be directly equated with the heroes of Greek mythology.
be difficult to, be hard to It's hard to equate this gentle woman with the monster portrayed in the newspapers. 
with We are taught to equate beauty with success. 
around the ~ Rainforests occur around the equator.
at the ~ The sun heats the sea more at the equator than at the poles.
on the ~ The lake lies exactly on the equator. 
north/south of the equator The island is just 80 miles north of the equator. 
essential, necessary, vital Hospitals are increasingly depending on charity for vital equipment.
play The local council is supplying new play equipment for the playground.
intellectual, mental, physical, sensory He lacks the intellectual equipment to succeed in politics. 
use The plane uses state-of-the-art navigation equipment.
need, require No specialist equipment is needed. 
consist of sth The basic equipment consists of a plastic mask and a length of rope. 
American, British, etc. 
have a word which has no direct equivalent in English 
for There is no exact male equivalent for witches.
~ in It is the approximate equivalent in height to the Matterhorn.
~ of This qualification is the equivalent of a degree.
~ to This concert hall has been described as the American equivalent to London's Albert Hall. 
be difficult to, be impossible to These insects are very difficult to eradicate. 
from The disease has now been successfully eradicated from the world. 
be, sit, stand He sat very erect, listening intently.
hold sth She held her head erect as she walked proudly up to the platform. 
serious, severe Acid rain has caused severe erosion on the hillside.
suffer (from) The area suffers badly from coastal erosion. 
do, go on, run She made her brother run some little errands for her.
send sb on My boss kept sending me out on errands. 
on an ~ She's gone on an errand for her mother. 
fundamental, glaring, grave, great, major, monumental, serious The report contained some glaring errors.
fatal He made the fatal error of borrowing more than he could pay back.
past The ability to learn from past errors is vital in business.
tactical The Kenyan athlete made a tactical error in starting too fast.
human, pilot The plane crash was caused by human error, not mechanical failure. 
commit, make He had committed a grave error in letting them see the document. She made several serious errors during the race.
contain The document contained a lot of typing errors.
detect, discover, find, spot I found several factual errors in the report.
point out The error was pointed out to her by one of her colleagues.
realize I only realized my error when it was too late.
avoid She has avoided the common error of writing too much.
correct, rectify Glasses can correct most errors in your vision.
compound The paper accidentally printed the victim's address, then compounded their error by printing her name the next day. 
message An error message comes up when I try to open the program. 
in ~ The machine had been switched off in error (= by mistake).
~ in He checked his letter for errors in spelling. He realized his error in not attending the funeral.
~ of The speech contained many errors of fact. 
a comedy of errors His attempts to arrange a party ended up as a comedy of errors.
an error of judgement The minister had made an amazing error of judgement.
a margin of error The margin of error for a racing driver is tiny. 
big, great, major, violent It was the biggest eruption of Vesuvius for some years.
in an/the ~ The temple was destroyed in the violent eruption of 1470 BC. 
lead to The reorganization has led to a dramatic escalation in costs.
effect, make, make good He made his escape through the window. I found an open door and made good my escape.
a means/way of escape She looked round for a means of escape.
a possibility of escape There was clearly no possibility of escape. 
lucky, miraculous, remarkable A driver had a lucky escape after a brick was dropped on his car from an overhead bridge. 
from He had a narrow escape from gunfire. 
be accompanied by, have She had a police escort to the hospital.
give sb, provide (sb with), send Can you give us an escort? The army provided a small armed escort for the delegation.
need The referee needed a police escort as he left the stadium. 
under ~ The opposition leader was arrested and taken to the capital under escort.
with/without an ~ They left with a small escort.
~ for an escort for the Queen's car
collection In 2001 she published a collection of essays. 
do, write Have you done your essay yet?
give in, hand in Essays handed in late will not be accepted. 
question, title, topic You have to answer 3 out of 8 essay questions in the exam. 
in an/the ~ He made some very good points in his essay.
~ about/on We've got to write an essay on the environment.
~ by an essay by Montaigne 
become It is becoming almost essential for students to have a second language.
make sth Increased competition makes it essential for the business to innovate.
consider sth, deem sth, regard sth as, see sth as, think sth Do you consider these textbooks essential for the course? 
by no means Although useful, the accessories are by no means essential. 
to He believed that some form of religion was essential to human life. 
agree to The two countries agreed to establish full diplomatic relations.
an attempt/effort to establish sth, newly/recently established He was appointed to the newly established Department of the Environment. 
firmly, securely His position in the organization is now firmly established. 
help (to), help sb (to) The exhibition helped her establish herself as an artist. 
as He has now established his reputation as a popular musician. 
become/get established The festival has become established as one of the town's annual events. 
attempt to, seek to, try to Police are still trying to establish the identity of the dead man.
have, own The family owns a large estate in the north of the country.
buy Queen Victoria bought the estate in 1848.
an heir to an estate The young prince is the heir to a vast estate in the west of the country. 
industrial, trading The factory is on a large industrial estate on the outskirts of town. 
on an/the ~ She lives on a council estate in Leeds. 
leave She left her whole estate to her niece.
inherit She inherited her father's estate.
own He owns personal estate worth $30 million. 
current, recent Current estimates suggest that supplies will run out within six months.
best Flight times in the brochure are based on our best estimate, and will be confirmed as soon as possible.
conservative, low I think 15,000 will turn out to be a very low estimate.
high According to the highest estimate, over 100,000 men died in the battle.
make Can you make an estimate of the numbers involved?
give (sb), provide (sb with), submit Three firms submitted estimates for the work.
indicate sth, predict sth, show sth, suggest sth One estimate suggests that 30,000 jobs may be lost.
put sth at Some estimates put the figure as high as 50%.
range, vary Cost estimates vary from $50,000 to $200,000. 
according to an/the ~ According to the revised estimate, four million people will be without homes.
at an ~ Even at a conservative estimate, there is a lot of work to be done.
in an/the ~ In his first estimate, he suggested a figure of £5,000.
~ by, ~ from According to an estimate by a leading newspaper, she earns £40 million a year.
~ for We will send you an estimate for the repairs.
go up in, rise in He went up in my estimation when I heard about his charity work.
in sb's ~ In my estimation, you've done a good job. 
personal She resigned over an issue of personal ethics.
Christian
business, medical, professional The study was approved by the medical ethics committee. 
a code of ethics There should be a code of business ethics which indicates how clients are to be served.
a matter/question of ethics. It's the committee's job to decide on matters of ethics. 
wave The news sparked a wave of euphoria across the country. 
about All the euphoria about the ‘new methods’ soon faded.
~ over By then, the euphoria over the fall of the Berlin Wall had evaporated. 
carefully, systematically The evidence should be carefully evaluated.
positively The role of stay-at-home mother is more positively evaluated in working-class communities. 
hristmas, Midsummer's, New Year's 
Friday, Saturday, etc.
April, May, etc.
early, late It was early evening and very still. 
spend We spent the evening walking round the town. 
progress, wear on As the evening wore on, Phil became very drunk. 
during the ~, for an/the ~ Her parents were out for the evening.
in the ~, on Friday, etc. ~ 
an/the evening off/out You deserve an occasional evening out.
open, parents' Prospective students were invited to the school's open evening.
hold The club will hold a social evening to welcome new members. 
from They were forcibly evicted from their home. 
concrete, direct, firm, first-hand, objective, tangible The figures provide concrete evidence of the bank's claim to provide the best service.
available, current, present Available evidence points to pilot error as the cause of the crash.
crucial, important, valuable, vital The defence accused the prosecution of withholding crucial evidence.
corroborative They convicted the wrong man on the basis of a signed confession with no corroborative evidence.
conflicting Another team of scientists has come up with conflicting evidence.
damning The scandal is damning evidence of the government's contempt for democracy.
anecdotal, archaeological, circumstantial, documentary, empirical, experimental, factual, forensic, formal, historical, material, medical, photographic, scientific, statistical, video, visible, visual There was a mass of circumstantial evidence linking Watson to the murder.
false She admitted giving false evidence to the court. 
body, mass A body of evidence emerged suggesting that smoking tobacco caused serious diseases. 
have We do not have the evidence to prove these claims.
accumulate, collect, come up with, find, gather, obtain, produce Scientists have found fresh evidence to suggest that a huge explosion led to the death of the dinosaurs.
offer (sb), provide (sb with), show (sb) The tapes provided evidence of her intentions.
give, present (sb with) She was hoping she would not have to give evidence in court.
see He says he's been working hard, but I haven't seen any evidence of it.
cite (sth as) The team cited evidence from a recent earthquake to back up their idea. The rise in crime is often cited as evidence of a general breakdown of authority.
use sth in The police officer took a statement which was later used in evidence.
hear We must wait to hear his evidence before we make any judgement.
admit, allow The judge can decide whether to admit or exclude evidence.
accumulate, grow Evidence is accumulating that a defective gene may be responsible for this disease.
as ~ He cited Australia's sporting success as evidence for his theory.
in ~ A photo of the victim's injuries was produced in evidence.
on … ~ On present evidence the team will be lucky to make the final.
on the ~ of On the evidence of his latest exhibition, Miller is an artist who is past his best.
~ about, ~ concerning, ~ regarding, ~ relating to The team have been collecting evidence about war crimes.
~ against The woman went to court to give evidence against her attacker.
~ for What evidence do you have for that claim?
~ of Archaeologists found evidence of a rich and varied culture at the settlement.
~ on The first chapter reviews the evidence on how children learn language. 
in the face/teeth of evidence The company denies, in the face of overwhelming evidence, that smoking causes cancer.
in the light of evidence In the light of new evidence, a new enquiry into the crash is likely to take place.
lack of evidence The kidnapping charge was dropped because of lack of evidence.
not a scrap/shred of evidence He made the accusations without a shred of evidence to back them up. 
basically, inherently, intrinsically He believes that all people are basically evil. 
still Her face, though sad, still evoked a feeling of serenity. 
independently, separately Monkeys in the New World evolved quite separately from those in the Old World. 
from More complex animals gradually evolved from these very simple creatures.
into The protest movement has evolved into a well organized political party. 
fully/highly evolved These are very highly evolved animals. 
chemistry, French, geography, etc.
mock I did badly in the mock exam but passed the real thing.
prepare for, revise for, study for I can't go out because I'm revising for end of year exams.
do, sit, take When do you sit your final exams?
do well in, pass, scrape through In spite of her worries, she passed the exam with flying colours. I wrote two awful essays and was lucky to scrape through the exam.
cheat in Candidates found cheating in any exam will be disqualified from all their exams.
set The final exam is set by a board of professors.
be over, finish As soon as the exams are over I'm going on holiday. 
nerves Most students suffer from exam nerves to some extent.
time There is a subdued atmosphere in the school at exam time.
format The exam format has been changed to include multiple choice questions.
board The regional exam boards all get together regularly to ensure equal standards. 
in an/the ~ He did badly in his maths exam.
carefully, closely, in detail, minutely Each case must be carefully examined. We shall now proceed to examine these two aspects of the problem in detail.
critically Critically examine your work as if you were looking at someone else's efforts.
aim to, be designed to, seek to, set out to This study sets out to examine the possible effects of climate change.
stop to Anna stopped to examine a plant growing by the stream.
for The room was examined minutely for clues. 
let us examine … Let us examine the implications of this theory. 
externally, internally The course is externally examined (= by people from outside the college, university, etc.). 
in The students will be examined in all subjects at the end of term.
on You are only being examined on this semester's work. > See CROSS-EXAMINATION 
express, give vent to The organization has expressed its exasperation with the government.
in ~ She rolled her eyes in sheer exasperation.
with ~ He snorted with exasperation.
a groan/grunt/sigh of exasperation With a groan of exasperation, he picked up the luggage himself. 
carry out, conduct Further archaeological excavations are now being carried out. 
reveal sth, uncover sth, unearth sth Excavations of the site have revealed an Iron Age settlement.
proceed, take place More discoveries were made as the excavation proceeded. 
pursue, strive for The school strives for academic excellence.
in The Business School has a reputation for excellence in research. 
a centre of excellence The college aims to be a world centre of excellence in the field of marine biology.
levels/standards of excellence The restaurant's standards of excellence have won it several awards.
conspicuous, important, major, notable, obvious, significant, striking Most industries have suffered badly in the recession, but there have been a few notable exceptions.
honourable With a few honourable exceptions, MPs kept quiet about the corruption. 
make No parking is allowed, but an exception is made for disabled drivers. 
with the ~ of The whole of the island was flooded with the exception of a small area in the north.
without ~ Without exception, all employees must carry their identity card with them at all times.
~ to Guide dogs are the one exception to the store's ban on dogs. 
be no exception The weather had been rainy for days, and the day of the race was no exception.
be the exception rather than the rule Nowadays a job for life is very much the exception rather than the rule.
be the exception to the rule Most of his family are sports enthusiasts, but he's the exception to the rule. 
feature, give, include, play, publish, quote, show The programme included excerpts from Verdi's operas. 
from The paper published some short excerpts from Mandela's memoirs. 
consider sth, regard sth as, see sth as He considered the level of tax excessive. 
get sb Don't get the children too excited. 
all, extraordinarily, extremely, highly, really, terribly, tremendously, very, wildly He was all excited about his new car. By now the crowd was wildly excited.
about The kids seem pretty excited about the holiday.
by He was puzzled but strangely excited by the commotion. 
become, get The film was just getting exciting when we had to leave.
find sth She found the idea terrifically exciting. 
give, let out, utter She gave a loud exclamation of delight.
zone A 20-mile exclusion zone was set up around the power station to guard against further explosions. 
to the ~ of Don't revise a few topics to the exclusion of all others.
go on, make We decided to make an all-day excursion to the island.
to He took us on an excursion to the ruined city. 
for He was executed for treason. 
beautifully, boldly, brilliantly, cleanly, meticulously, neatly, skilfully, successfully, well The movement was beautifully executed.
female, woman The contract gives a female executive maternity leave rights.
government, party, union She is a member of the party's national executive.
strong Conservatives are by tradition believers in a strong executive.
control Parliament's ability to control the executive 
automatically Pensioners are automatically exempt from prescription charges. 
from This income is totally exempt from taxation. 
blanket The bill gives sensitive police files a blanket exemption.
be entitled to, be subject to, enjoy, qualify for These goods are subject to exemption from tax. They enjoyed exemption from customs duties on goods to be used by themselves.
apply (to sb/sth), cover sb/sth, relate to sb/sth The exemption which applies to home-buyers. 
for There are parking restrictions in the city centre with exemptions for disabled drivers.
~ from You may be able to apply for exemption from local taxes.
be free to Managers are free to exercise their discretion in these cases.
be necessary to, need to It is necessary to exercise caution when making recommendations.
continue to The all-powerful steering committee continued to exercise control.
fail to You need to prove that the company's representative failed to exercise due care. 
diesel, petrol Diesel exhaust contains a lot of soot. 
leave sb The row had left him physically exhausted. 
absolutely, completely, quite, thoroughly, totally, utterly He fell into bed utterly exhausted.
from I was exhausted from the day's work. 
suffer from She was taken to hospital suffering from exhaustion.
be close to He was hollow-eyed and seemed very close to exhaustion.
be overcome by, collapse from/with Two of the horses collapsed with exhaustion.
drive sb to, lead to Don't work too hard and drive yourself to exhaustion.
in ~ He fell silent, with his head bowed in exhaustion.
with ~ She was faint with exhaustion. 
changing, special, temporary The library has a policy of mounting changing exhibitions. There is a series of special exhibitions throughout the year.
touring, travelling a touring exhibition of Impressionist drawings
one-man, one-person, one-woman, solo By 1914 Picasso had held one-man exhibitions in England, Germany and Spain.
trade the international food trade exhibition in Cologne 
have, hold, host The museum hosted a big exhibition of her work last year.
house The old factory has been converted to house an exhibition.
display, mount, present, put on, show, stage They plan to stage an art exhibition in a nearby town.
launch, open The mayor will open the exhibition next week.
go on The Mappa Mundi will go on permanent exhibition at Hereford Cathedral. 
open The exhibition opens at the Tate Gallery in July.
be on, be on view, run, take place The exhibition runs from 11 April to 5 July.
move (on) to The exhibition moves on to the National Gallery, Washington, next month.
comprise sth, cover sth, feature sth, include sth, show sth The exhibition includes drawings by Rembrandt.
space The new wing will provide 20,000 more square feet of exhibition space.
stand Hundreds of firms had exhibition stands.
on ~ A selection of her paintings is on exhibition at the Whitechapel Art Gallery.
~ on an exhibition on local history > Note at ART 
effectively He was effectively exiled after a failed bid for power. 
from The family was exiled from France.
to He was exiled to Siberia. 
actual, real El Cid's actual existence is not in doubt. Since her illness, other people had become shadowy and had no real existence for her.
very The peasants depend on a good harvest for their very existence (= in order to continue to live).
mere The mere existence of these strange creatures fascinated him.
be in The idea of God in nature has been in existence for as long as human beings have worshipped.
come into, spring into The organization came into existence ten years ago. What are the chances of these molecules springing spontaneously into existence?
be crushed out of, go out of If you jump into a black hole you will get torn apart and crushed out of existence. There was a fear that the club might go out of existence for lack of support.
assume, postulate, presuppose The theory assumes the existence of a ‘meritocracy’?that there is equal opportunity for all.
accept, acknowledge, believe in, recognize He didn't believe in the existence of God.
explain How do you explain the existence of closely related species in widely separated locations?
forget, ignore The girl's parents continued to ignore her very existence.
resent Deep down I resented his existence.
jeopardize, threaten Climate changes threaten the continued existence of the species.
owe The school owed its existence to the generosity of one man.
be vital to A super-efficient sense of smell is no longer vital to our existence. 
depend on/upon sth The company's existence depends on continued growth. 
the struggle for existence Darwin viewed the struggle for existence as being the major promoter of evolution. 
bare, frugal, hand-to-mouth, miserable, precarious He lived a hand-to-mouth existence in the less attractive areas of London.
previous, prior He claimed to be able to remember a previous existence. 
eke out, endure They eke out a precarious existence foraging in rubbish dumps. 
quite The hotel charges quite exorbitant prices.
confidently She confidently expects to win.
fully My parents fully expect us to get married.
not really I didn't really expect them to come.
half I was half expecting to see Jim at the concert.
honestly Did you honestly expect me to believe that? 
be reasonable to, can, can realistically, can reasonably We can expect to see an improvement in the weather over the next few days.
be unrealistic to, be unreasonable to, can hardly It would be unreasonable to expect them to do all that work for free. You can hardly expect to learn a foreign language in a few months.
would, would normally I would expect the factory to be working again as normal by next week.
be entitled to You are entitled to expect certain minimum standards of accommodation. 
from We expect good results from our employees. 
only) to be expected This kind of behaviour is to be expected from a two-year-old.
expect a lot/too much of sb I think my parents always expected too much of me.
when you least expect sth An accident can happen anywhere, at any time, just when you least expect it. 
find sth The government found it expedient to relax censorship a little. 
forcibly They were forcibly expelled from their farm by the occupying authorities. 
for, from He was expelled from school for disruptive behaviour. 
public The bridge was built at public expense.
go to, incur They went to all the expense of redecorating the house and then they moved.
put sb to Their visit put us to a lot of expense.
bear, cover, meet She had to meet the expense herself.
spare no No expense was spared (= they spent as much money as was needed) to make the party a success.
be worth The results are well worth the expense. 
at sb/sth's ~ They had to repair the damage at their own expense. He built up the business at the expense of his health.
at … ~ The garden was transformed at great expense. The accommodation package includes admission to the golf course at no extra expense. 
incidental Relocated employees received grants towards incidental expenses like buying carpets.
business, management Meetings, and the time for them, are a considerable management expense. 
high Medical expenses can be quite high if you are not insured.
deduct You will have to pay income tax on the rent you receive, although you can deduct expenses such as insurance. 
arise You can expect to receive compensation for all expenses arising out of the accident. 
expense account Put the cost of the meal on your expense account.
all expenses paid a two-day, all expenses paid trip to London allowable, legitimate, reasonable You can claim back the tax on legitimate business expenses.
basic The guides are unpaid except for basic expenses.
out-of-pocket (= paid for by an employee, to be claimed back later from the employer) Any out-of-pocket expenses incurred on the firm's business will be reimbursed.
cover, defray, meet, pay, refund, reimburse He was given a sum of money to cover his travel expenses.
claim (back) They are claiming expenses for travel and overnight accommodation.
good, invaluable, relevant, unrivalled, valuable She didn't get paid much but it was all good experience. Both candidates for the presidency were short of relevant experience. Rolls Royce's unrivalled experience in high technology manufacturing
previous Do you have any previous experience of this type of work?
broaden She wanted to broaden her experience in international affairs. 
of She has considerable professional experience of translation. 
a lack of experience, a wealth of experience The veteran goalkeeper will bring a wealth of experience to the team. 
past We're in for a difficult couple of weeks, if past experience is anything to go by.
subjective Experience is subjective and very hard to measure.
vicarious I love reading: I have an insatiable appetite for vicarious experience.
common It is a matter of common experience that disorder will increase if things are left to themselves.
everyday Choose illustrative examples from the children's everyday experience.
human There are few areas of human experience that have not been written about.
draw on, learn by/from/through In her book, she draws on her first-hand experience of mental illness. We all learn by experience.
be based on The book is based on personal experience. 
suggest sth, teach (sb) sth Experience has taught me that life can be very unfair. 
by/from ~ We know from experience that hot objects are painful to touch.
in sb's ~ In my experience, very few people really understand the problem.
~ of He has direct experience of poverty. 
bad, harrowing, painful, traumatic, unnerving, unsettling I had a bad experience with fireworks once.
common, shared The use of drama can motivate students by allowing them to share a common experience.
common It is a common experience to feel that an author writes well, without being able to say why.
childhood, early, formative Early experiences shape the way we face up to and deal with crises in later life.
enjoy, go through, have, undergo She has been through a very traumatic experience. I think you will enjoy the experience of taking part in the show.
come through, get over It could take him years to get over this experience.
share, swap Does anyone have any experiences?good or bad?that they would like to share with the group?
relive Reliving past experiences can release powerful feelings that have been pent up too long.
be based on The novel is based on his experiences in the war. 
quite an experience It was quite an experience being involved in making a television programme. 
extremely, highly, immensely, really, vastly, very The staff are all highly experienced.
sufficiently, suitably The task needs the skills of a suitably experienced engineer.
in She's very experienced in looking after children. 
on They experimented successfully on the plants to discover disease-resistant varieties.
with We have experimented with various different designs of kite. 
appropriate, relevant Each area of the curriculum should be led by a staff member with appropriate expertise.
necessary MPs may lack the necessary expertise to scrutinize legislation effectively.
collective, combined, shared They met regularly to share experiences and develop their collective expertise.
in-house, local, outside We sometimes have to call on outside expertise.
degree, level A high degree of expertise is required for this stage of the manufacturing process. 
have She has great expertise in these matters.
build on This project builds on the existing expertise of staff at the centre.
provide Professor Simpson provided expertise in engineering.
apply, bring, bring to bear, use How could he apply his academic expertise to practical matters? He will bring a great deal of expertise to bear on this issue.
bring together, call on, draw on The project brings together expertise in teaching and library provision. We need to draw on the professional expertise of a large number of teachers.
pass on, share The teachers would be available to share expertise and offer advice. 
be available We need to discover what relevant expertise is available to us. 
~ on She brings expertise on general financial and technical matters. 
an area/a field of expertise, a range of expertise The variety of technology requires a wide range of expertise. 
in detail I wrote explaining the issues in great detail.
fully The reasons for the accident have not been fully explained.
partly This partly explains why he was so late.
easily, readily This phenomenon can be easily explained.
patiently The doctor explained patiently what the treatment would be.
concisely, succinctly, tersely The general principles behind the method used are explained clearly and concisely. ‘We've already paid,’ I explained tersely.
be able/unable to, can/could I know I'm late, but I can explain why.
purport to Many theories purport to explain growth in terms of a single cause.
be difficult to, be hard to It's difficult to explain exactly how the system works.
hasten to She saw his quick frown and hastened to explain.
let sb Let me explain what I mean. 
about She tried to explain about her fears and anxieties.
to She explained the plan to me very carefully. 
explain everything I've got a letter here which explains everything.
go a long way/some way towards explaining sth This goes some way towards explaining the hostility between the two groups. 
easily, readily The sudden increase in sales is easily explicable.
entirely, perfectly, wholly His behaviour is entirely explicable.
by The delay is partly explicable by the roadworks.
in terms of The differences in the children's achievements were not wholly explicable in terms of their social backgrounds. 
be liable to The chemical is liable to explode on contact with water.
fail to A blast bomb was thrown but the device failed to explode. 
be about to, be ready to, be set to A row over public spending is set to explode.
into He suddenly exploded into action.
with She literally exploded with anger. 
mercilessly, ruthlessly The workers are ruthlessly exploited by their employers.
cynically He pursued his own interests, cynically exploiting his privileged position as trustee.
fully, to the full The firm has been successful in exploiting new technology to the full.
cleverly, skilfully The architect has cleverly exploited new materials and building techniques.
commercially She was keen to exploit her discovery commercially. 
be quick to The team were quick to exploit their competitive advantage.
carry out Extensive exploration was carried out using the latest drilling technology.
activity, drilling Exploration activity slowed during the 1970s.
careful, detailed My ideas on semantics needed more careful exploration.
great the great British explorers of the sixteenth century
Antarctic, Arctic, polar 
highly Race is a highly explosive issue.
potentially The political situation is potentially explosive. 
early He was an early exponent of multimedia in the classroom. 
of a leading exponent of the Japanese flute 
widely a French breed of cattle that has been exported widely
from Last year 2,000 birds were exported from the island.
to The country exports sugar to Europe. 
deliberately She lifted her chin in a gesture that deliberately exposed the line of her throat. 
to These drawings must not be exposed to the air. 
publicly He was publicly exposed as a liar and a cheat.
cruelly He was outclassed by an Aston Villa side that cruelly exposed his lack of pace. 
constantly The general public is constantly exposed to radiation.
receive, suffer She suffered a massive exposure to toxic chemicals.
limit, minimize, reduce Banks will seek to minimize their exposure to risk.
to The report recommends people to avoid prolonged exposure to sunlight. 
give sb/sth The magazine aims to give exposure to the work of women artists.
clear, coherent Her statement was a clear expression of her views on this subject.
concrete, material, practical, tangible The report gave concrete expression to the fears of many immigrants.
direct Just because there is no direct expression of prejudice, that does not mean the prejudice does not exist.
full The new concept of form reached its fullest expression in the work of Picasso.
highest, perfect, ultimate His highest expression of praise was ‘Not bad!’ the highest expression of human creativity
natural He wanted to write a verse drama in which the verse would seem a natural expression of modern life.
characteristic, classic Modernism was the characteristic expression of the experience of modernity.
collective Harvest festival was the occasion for the collective expression of a community's religious values.
allow sth, give sth The method is to listen to the music and allow expression to whatever comes to you. Only in his dreams does he give expression to his fears.
demand, need, require Suddenly her deeper feelings demanded expression. 
beyond ~ She suddenly felt happy beyond expression (= so happy that she could not express it). 
freedom of expression Freedom of expression (= freedom to say what you think) is a basic human right.
a means of expression Words, as a means of expression, can be limiting. 
have, wear She had a very bewildered expression on her face. The children's faces all wore the same rapt expression.
assume, put on She carefully put on her most innocent expression.
take on Rose's face took on the fierce expression of a schoolgirl talking about her most hated teacher.
catch, see Catching a fleeting expression on Lucy's face, she persisted with her question.
gauge, read I looked at her, trying to read the expression on her face.
change His face never changed expression. 
alter, change His expression changed to embarrassment.
relax, soften His expression softened when he saw her.
darken, harden Her expression hardened into one of strong dislike.
betray sth, reveal sth, show sth, suggest sth, tell sb sth Her expression betrayed nothing of her thoughts. His grim expression told her it would be useless.
cross sth, flit across sth She had been watching the expression that crossed his face. 
without ~ ‘Go on, ’ she said, without expression.
~ of He wore an expression of anxiety on his face. 
the expression in sb's eyes/on sb's face He looked at her with a very strange expression in his eyes. 
American, English, etc.
geographical Until the mid-nineteenth century, ‘Italy’ was just a geographical expression. 
use He tends to use strange expressions like ‘It's enough to make a cat laugh’. 
lead to, result in Copying from another candidate results in automatic expulsion.
order The government ordered the immediate expulsion of the two men.
be threatened with, face Several pupils now face expulsion.
ground(s) for expulsion His disruptive behaviour was felt to be sufficient grounds for his expulsion. 
to They're building an extension to their house. 
apply for, ask for, request He's applied for an extension of his visa.
get, receive She got an extension for writing her essay.
further This new job is a further extension of his role as a manager.
hair Hair extensions are pieces of artificial hair that are added to your hair to make it longer. 
logical, natural, obvious The team appraisal is a logical extension of the individual appraisal interview. 
by ~ The blame lies with the teachers and, by extension, with the Education Service. 
behind an/the ~ Hidden behind a plain exterior is a wonderful hotel.
on the ~ There is an abundance of fine sculpture, both on the exterior and inside. 
bland, bluff, calm, charming, confident, cool, glacial Her calm exterior hides very passionate feelings. 
belie, conceal, hide His bluff exterior belied a connoisseur of antiques. 
behind sb's ~ Behind his cool exterior lurks a reckless and frustrated person.
beneath/underneath sb's ~ Beneath her charming exterior lies a very determined woman. 
cause, lead to Modern farming methods have led to the total extinction of many species of wild flowers.
be doomed to, be in danger of, be on the brink/edge/verge of, be threatened with, face The island's way of life is doomed to extinction. These animals are now on the verge of extinction.
little There was no money left over for luxuries or little extras.
added Regular guests also get added extras like free room service. 
include sth Optional extras include anti-lock brakes and an electric sunroof. 
avoid, escape It won't be easy for them to escape extradition.
ask for, call for, demand, request, seek The new government will seek the extradition of the suspected terrorists.
allow, order A judge ordered her extradition to Britain.
await, face The smuggler is in prison tonight, awaiting extradition to Britain.
fight, resist His lawyer announced that he will fight extradition. 
agreement, treaty There is no extradition agreement between the two countries.
be, feel, seem I go to that restaurant for lunch if I'm feeling extravagant.
terribly, very, wildly He had a wildly extravagant lifestyle.
with You mustn't be so extravagant with other people's money. 
opposite, polar Their views are at opposite extremes from each other.
climatic, political, temperature It's a difficult place to live because of its climatic extremes. 
avoid Avoid any extremes of emotional behaviour.
go to He went to the extreme of adulation, describing Churchill as the greatest man who ever lived.
carry sth to, take sth to It's foolish to take any dieting to extremes. 
at an/the At the extreme, some nuclear waste is so radioactive it has to be kept isolated for thousands of years.
between ~s There has to be a solution between these extremes.
in the ~ His voice was scornful in the extreme.
to the ~ She was always kindly and generous to the extreme.
~s of These photographs show extremes of obesity and emaciation. 
at one extreme, at the other extreme At the other extreme, women still childless at 32 were more likely to be from a professional background.
go from one extreme to the other She goes from one extreme to the other, and either works very hard or does absolutely nothing. 
sheer She was laughing from the sheer exuberance of the performance.
curb He has to learn to curb his natural exuberance. 
greedily, hungrily The children eyed the cakes greedily. 
bat, flutter She smiled and fluttered her eyelashes at the ticket inspector. 
bad, deteriorating, failing, poor Failing eyesight finally forced her into an old people's home. 
have Owls have good eyesight. 
flushed, pink, red, ruddy Her face was flushed after her run.
fat, plump She had a plump, pretty face.
elfin Her short hair suited her elfin face.
tilt, turn She turned her face away. He tilted her face up to his. 
look, peer, stare A face peered round the door at him. 
in the/sb's ~ The ball hit him in the face. His eyes were sunken in his gaunt face.
on the/sb's ~ She put some powder on her face. 
a sea of faces (= a large crowd of faces) From the stage, he looked down at a sea of faces. 
hard, set, stern His face was set and hard.
long, sad The news for the company isn't good, judging from the long faces in the boardroom.
funny She made a funny face and gave a snorting sort of laugh.
expressive, open She looked at the honest, open face of her husband.
blank, expressionless, impassive His face remained impassive, so strong was his self-control. 
make, pull What are you pulling a face at now?
search He searched her face for some clue as to what she meant. 
brighten, glow, light up Her little face lit up when I gave her the present.
beam, smile The face smiled benignly at him.
cloud, crumple, drop, fall Her face crumpled and she started crying. ‘I can't come,’ she said. His face fell.
on sb's ~ She had a big smile on her face. 
a face like thunder (= a very angry face) Mr Hibbs came in with a face like thunder. 
North, South, etc.
steep We slowly climbed the steep face of the crag.
face down/downwards, face up/upwards She placed the cards face downwards on the table. 
familiar, (same) old I looked around for a familiar face. I'm so bored with seeing the same old faces!
unacceptable Social deprivation is the unacceptable face of capitalism.
changing the changing face of Britain 
greatly The use of computers has greatly facilitated the firm's ability to keep accurate records.
concrete, hard, incontrovertible, inescapable, observable, obvious, plain, straightforward, true, undeniable The police have to support their case with hard facts. These are all incontrovertible facts.
little-known, well-known It is a well-known fact that girls do better than boys at school.
mere The mere fact of your being there will arouse their suspicions.
be aware of, have, know We haven't got all the facts yet. She already knew the facts she needed.
check, examine, look at I think you need to check your facts. For God's sake, look at the facts!
prove These facts have not yet been proved.
select Historians must first select the facts that they present.
give, impart, present, state The job of the teacher is not simply to impart facts. I'm not making excuses?I'm just stating a fact.
account for, explain How do you account for the fact that unemployment is still rising?
accept, acknowledge, face, recognize She wouldn't accept the fact that she had lost. I'm afraid you'll have to face facts. She'll never marry you.
grasp He doesn't seem able to grasp this basic fact.
assimilate Students need time to assimilate the facts.
deny, dispute No one can deny this fact.
ignore, overlook This approach ignores the fact that people, not computers, commit crimes.
conceal, disguise, hide If he was bored, he managed to hide the fact very well.
obscure The recent improvements should not obscure the fact that general standards are still far too low.
draw attention to The report draws attention to the fact that the country is now a net exporter of the product.
confine yourself to, keep to, stick to Just stick to the facts.
reflect Prices reflect the fact that the company is aiming at the luxury market.
stem from He knew their bitterness stemmed from the fact that he was in charge.
be complicated by, be compounded by, be exacerbated by The problem was compounded by the fact that I had no idea what I was looking for?only ‘some sort of clue’.
lament, regret, resent We sat miserably in the pub, lamenting the fact that our dry clothes were a 60-mile bus journey away. She resented the fact that I was older and had more freedom than her. 
remain The fact remains that we are still two teachers short. 
after the ~ On some vital decisions employees were only informed after the fact (= when it was too late to change them).
apart from the ~ She was happy, apart from the fact that she could not return home.
despite/in spite of/notwithstanding the ~ She's taking her children on holiday, despite the fact that school starts tomorrow.
due to the ~ Due to the fact that they did not read English, the prisoners were unaware of what they were signing.
given the ~ The findings are not surprising, given the facts: …
in ~ I used to live in France; in fact, not far from where you're going.
~ about We learned several interesting facts about elephants. 
as) a matter of fact It's not wild speculation! It's plain matter of fact. 
critical, crucial, deciding, decisive, determining, key, vital This is regarded as the crucial factor in deciding who should get priority. Money proved to be the deciding factor.
contributing, contributory Poor organization was certainly a contributory factor to the crisis.
complicating, distorting A complicating factor is her parents' refusal to cooperate with the police.
mitigating The appeal judges spoke of strong mitigating factors in the case.
single The closure of the mine was the single most important factor in the town's decline.
common Look for the common factor in all these cases.
external, extraneous, extrinsic External factors in the production of disease include pollution of the environment.
risk Studies have established that smoking is a risk factor for cancer.
consider, take into account A variety of other factors will be taken into account.
a combination/number/range/variety of factors The outcome will depend on a number of factors. 
keep sth Try to keep your account as factual as possible. 
food Most children have food fads at some time. 
be excreted in, be expelled in, be passed in The larvae may be excreted in the faeces.
collect A sample of fresh faeces should be collected each day. 
in the ~ The amount of blood in the faeces was measured. 
major, worst Vanity is her worst failing.
have We all have our failings. 
be, look, sound His voice sounded faint and far away.
become, grow The whispers grew fainter and fainter, then stopped altogether. 
extremely, very I can't make out the number?it's very faint.
a bit, a little, quite I was beginning to feel a little faint. 
with I was faint with hunger. 
make sth I'll give you ten pounds each to make it fair.
consider sth, think sth I didn't think it fair that the others should be allowed to go but not me. 
scrupulously, very It's important to be scrupulously fair when marking the final exam paper.
absolutely, completely, entirely, perfectly, quite, totally I don't care what he thinks. It seems perfectly fair to me. That doesn't seem quite fair.
hardly It's hardly fair that I should be working while everyone else is enjoying themselves!
to be fair To be fair, we hadn't really spent enough time on the job. 
to That seems fair to all sides. 
call for sth, demand sth, require sth Fairness demanded an equal division of the winnings. 
in (all) ~ In all fairness to him, I should say that most of his story is true.
with ~ They were all treated with strict fairness.
~ to The new system of waiting lists should guarantee fairness to all patients. 
a sense of fairness Children have a very strong sense of fairness. 
blind He seems to have a blind faith in his boss.
touching She showed a touching faith in my ability to resolve any and every difficulty.
public Business crime undermines public faith in the business system. 
place, pin, put He distrusted political systems and placed his faith in the genius of individuals. She did not pin much faith on their chances of success.
retain If the company can retain its customers' faith it could become the market leader.
in Her faith in human nature had been badly shaken. 
an act of faith, a leap of faith These reforms are totally untested and will require a leap of faith on the part of teachers.
come to, find He found faith gradually, rather than in a sudden conversion.
through ~ They believe that people can come to salvation through faith.
~ in After her son's death she lost her faith in God. 
an article of faith (often figurative) Manchester United's greatness was an article of faith for him (= a belief that could not be questioned). 
living Christianity is a living faith which has shaped the history of Britain.
world The study of other world faiths is an important part of religious education.
Catholic, Jewish, Muslim, etc. 
practise Christians were allowed to practise their faith unmolested by the authorities.
keep alive, uphold Their aim was to keep alive the traditional Jewish faith.
bad, good The judge did not find any bad faith (= intention to do wrong) on the part of the defendants. 
keep As club manager he was not prepared to keep faith with (= keep a promise to) the players who had failed him.
in … ~ We printed the report in good faith, but have now learnt that it was incorrect. 
bad, nasty, terrible She took a bad fall while out riding.
have, suffer, take The doctor says she's had a very nasty fall.
break, cushion Luckily a bush broke his fall.
survive The chances of surviving a fall under a train are almost nil. 
in a/the ~ He was hurt in a fall at his home yesterday.
~ from She broke her neck in a fall from a horse. 
big, dramatic, great, large, marked, massive, significant, substantial a big fall in house prices This triggered the recent dramatic falls on the Tokyo stock exchange.
see, suffer Share prices suffered a slight fall yesterday.
record, reveal, show The opinion polls show a significant fall in her popularity.
report Both companies reported a fall in profits in the first quarter of this year.
represent This figure represents a fall of 21% on the same period last year. 
occur The fall in age at first marriage occurred during the second half of the 18th century. 
the rise and fall of sth a book charting the rise and fall of the Habsburg Empire 
absolutely, completely, entirely, quite, totally, utterly The gossip about her later proved to be entirely false.
blatantly, clearly, obviously, patently, undoubtedly Their claim was patently false. 
true or false Lagos is the capital of Nigeria. True or false? 
be, ring, sound Ella's enthusiasm rang false. 
horribly, very She managed a horribly false smile.
slightly Helen's voice sounded slightly false. 
international, world/worldwide She gained international fame as a dancer.
posthumous Largely unknown in his lifetime, Mendel's discoveries earned him posthumous fame. 
enjoy He was enjoying his new-found fame.
achieve, come to, find, gain, rise to, shoot to, win She found fame on the stage. He shot to fame in 1997 when he won the US Open.
bring sb, earn sb HIs adventure brought him both fame and notoriety.
rest on sth Her fame rests on a single book.
grow, spread The restaurant's fame spread quickly. 
at the height of sb/sth's fame In 1934, when at the height of his fame, he disappeared.
sb/sth's (chief/main/only) claim to fame The town's main claim to fame is being the home of one of the strangest buildings in the world.
fame and fortune After this concert she was firmly on the road to fame and fortune.
have I had only a basic familiarity with computers.
acquire, gain Over the years, he gained greater familiarity with the culture and way of life in the country. 
easy He treated her with the easy familiarity of an equal. 
imminent, impending Against a background of impending famine, heavy fighting took place. 
face, suffer Four million people are now facing famine. countries that regularly suffer famines
strike When famine strikes, it is often women and children who suffer the most. 
during a/the ~ Thousands of people died during the terrible famine of that year. 
adoring, ardent, avid, big, dedicated, devoted, great, keen, loyal, number one, real I'm a big fan of Italian food. one of the team's biggest fans The singer says her dad is her number one fan.
armchair For armchair fans back home, it was one of the highlights of the Sydney Olympics.
obsessive The actress is asking the court to protect her from an obsessive fan who is making her life a misery.
home The goal was greeted by jubilation from the home fans.
opposing/opposition, rival There were clashes between rival fans after the match. 
delight The big band sound of Syd Lawrence and his Orchestra will delight fans.
disappoint, let down Fans will not be disappointed. 
converge on sth, gather, turn out/up Soccer fans converged on the capital for the cup final. More than 40,000 fans turned up for the 12-hour event.
applaud (sb/sth), boo (sb/sth), chant sth Over 25,000 fans applauded both teams off the field.
besiege sth Hundreds of fans besieged the star's hotel. 
don, wear Several of the managers donned fancy dress for the office party. 
in ~ Many of the marathon runners compete in fancy dress. 
bare, show The wolf growled and bared its sharp fangs.
sink The snake sank its fangs into its victim. 
pure, sheer Most of what they told us was pure fantasy.
wild She dismissed the idea as a wild fantasy.
build, weave She had woven a whole fantasy about living in a cottage by the sea.
cherish, nourish I cherished the fantasy that I might one day have a son who would fulfil the dream.
act out Children can act out their fantasies in a secure environment.
fulfil, live (out), play out, satisfy My childhood fantasies were finally fulfilled. He was able to play out his fantasy of pop stardom. 
about She had a fantasy about going to live on a South Pacific island. 
the realms of fantasy The idea belonged in the realms of fantasy.
a world of fantasy She felt she had entered a world of fantasy. 
pay I'm afraid you will have to pay the full fare.
charge Buses charged a standard fare of about 20 pence per mile.
introduce, offer The airline has introduced a cheap return fare to New York.
dodge He faces charges of dodging taxi fares. 
cost (sb) sth The return fare will cost you less than two single tickets.
at... ~ Children travel at half fare. 
an increase/a rise in fares, a reduction in fares The company is promising reductions in fares. 
pick up The taxi driver picked up a fare outside the opera house. 
daily, standard, staple, traditional, typical Court trials involving famous people are the daily fare of newspapers. The band's music was standard rock fare.
Chinese, English, French, etc.
Christmas, farmhouse 
offer, serve a restaurant serving traditional Scottish fare
sample tourists seeing the sights and sampling the local Spanish fare 
silent I said a silent farewell to my village as I left for the city.
bid sb/sth, say, wish sb We bade them a final farewell.
wave I waved farewell to my friends from the deck of the ship.
make The court dignitaries made their farewells to the emperor.
exchange They exchanged fond farewells at the railway station.
be Is this farewell or will we see each other again? 
appearance This famous warplane is about to make its farewell appearance.
in ~ He raised his hand in farewell.
~ to She was sorry to bid farewell to Portugal. 
neighbouring, next She lives on the next farm.
model Ten model farms have been set up to showcase modern production methods.
working The area combines a working farm and a farming museum.
work (at/on) During the war, few men were left to work the farm. The children had to work on the family farm.
lie The farm lies on the hills above the lake.
produce, product Farm produce, including fruits and grains, was their principal export. farm products such as eggs and vegetables
policy the EU farm policy
subsidies, support The EU has decided to cut farm subsidies.
at a/the ~ The police are investigating a fire at a farm near Whitby.
down on the ~ The myth of happy and contented animals down on the farm is now far from the truth.
on a/the ~ He had lived on that farm all his life. 
deeply, most, really, terribly, truly, very a most fascinating book ‘This is all very fascinating,’ said Wilcox, ‘but I've got a meeting in five minutes.’
endlessly I find the natural world endlessly fascinating. 
to What was fascinating to me was the way the creatures moved. 
changing, passing changing fashions in education This theory, though recent, is more than a passing fashion.
high The store sells everything from sports clothes to high fashion.
designer the influence of Italian designer fashion on the clothes industry
be, be in She wore a powdered wig, as was the fashion of the day. Black is always in fashion.
become, come into Pessimism has become the fashion. When did flares first come into fashion?
fall out of, go out of Careful spending has gone out of fashion in our consumer society.
introduce, set, start He set a fashion for large hats.
follow, keep (up) with, keep pace with I've given up trying to keep up with the latest fashions. 
statement Flared trousers were a fashion statement of the seventies.
model She started her career as a fashion model.
scene fresh interest in the New York fashion scene
capital Paris, the world's fashion capital
business, industry, market, trade, world Her summer collection took the fashion world by storm.
company, house, label one of the most successful fashion houses in Milan
after the ~ of She spoke in French after (= copying) the fashion of the court.
~ in Fashions in art come and go. 
changes in fashion, the fashion of the day, the height of fashion The palazzo represents the height of architectural fashion for the mid-17th century.
true … The inspector insisted the meeting be held, in true spy novel fashion, in 
limited He has a small vocabulary and is only able to express himself in a limited fashion.
no uncertain Karpov struck back in no uncertain fashion to win the seventh game.
parrot Students become frustrated with learning verbs parrot fashion.
linear Costs and revenues are assumed to behave in a linear fashion.
easy, leisurely, relaxed The descent of the footpath starts in easy fashion.
after a ~ So they became friends, after a fashion (= to some extent).
in a ~ Why are they behaving in such a ridiculous fashion?
in … ~ The troops embarked in orderly fashion. 
be, seem Her pulse seemed very fast. 
exceptionally, extremely, really, remarkably, surprisingly, very I should make a very fast profit on these.
a bit, fairly, a little, pretty, quite, reasonably, relatively I suppose delivery in two days is quite fast really.
amazingly, blindingly, incredibly, unbelievably He came round the corner blindingly fast.
firmly, properly, securely, tightly We fastened all the windows securely.
together She fastened the papers together with a paper clip. 
to She fastened the rope to a tree. 
puppy It wasn't easy to lose puppy fat when Mum fed her on stodgy home cooking. 
go to, put on, run to If you eat too much you will put on fat. She was middle-aged and running to fat.
burn (off), lose, shed Exercise helps you burn off excess fat.
break down Claims that anti-cellulite creams can break down fat are controversial. 
accumulate The waistline is usually the first area where fat accumulates. 
not an ounce of fat His body was all muscle, with not an ounce of fat.
a roll of fat He had great rolls of fat round his middle. 
hot Put the chicken in hot fat and braise thoroughly. 
contain, have This cheese has a lot of fat in it.
be high/low in fat Ice cream is high in fat and sugar.
eat The amount of fat you eat can affect the health of your heart.
cut down on It's easy to cut down on fat without changing your diet too much.
cut out She has cut out fat altogether in an effort to lose weight.
cut, trim Trim any visible fat off the meat before cooking.
drain (off), pour off, skim off Remove the turkey from the pan and drain off the excess fat. 
contain sth Fats contain more calories than carbohydrates for the same weight.
spit The only sound from the kitchen was the lamb fat spitting. 
content Despite its very low fat content, it is deliciously creamy. 
worse They decided to kill themselves rather than suffer a worse fate at the hands of their enemy.
likely Under-representation is the likely fate of small parties.
unknown The ultimate fate of the captured troops is unknown.
the same, similar She broke her ankle before the big match, then suffered the same fate a month later. 
face He faces a grim fate if he is sent back to his own country.
share He had no desire to share the fate of his executed comrades.
avoid, escape She managed to escape the fate of the other rebels.
deserve What had he done to deserve such a terrible fate?
accept, be resigned to The condemned men were resigned to their fate.
bemoan, bewail Instead of just bemoaning your fate, why not do something to change it?
seal He had signed his confession and sealed his own fate.
decide An extraordinary general meeting to decide the company's fate will be held on Thursday.
abandon sb/sth to, leave sb/sth to The generals abandoned the men to their fate.
discover, hear (of), know (of), learn (of) He will learn of his fate in court tomorrow.
await The convicts awaited their fate in prison. 
await sb/sth, be/lie in store for sb/sth They were warned of the dreadful fate that awaited them if ever they returned to their homes.
befall sb/sth Worst of all was the fate that befell the captured rebel general.
be/hang in the balance The fate of the African wild dog hangs in the balance (= is uncertain). 
hold/have sb/sth's fate in your hands The jury held the fate of the accused in their hands.
leave/place/put your fate in sb's hands, a fate worse than death (often humorous) Obeying her parents' wishes for her life seemed a fate worse than death. 
cruel He believed that the universe was controlled by the whims of a cruel fate.
kind Fate was kind to me. 
believe in Such coincidences are almost enough to make one believe in 
decide sth, decree sth Fate decreed that she would never reach America.
intervene He secretly hoped that fate would intervene and save him having to meet her.
strike Only weeks after her previous injury, fate struck again, leaving her unable to compete.
deal a/its hand, deal sb a hand Anne accepted the cruel hand that fate had dealt her.
take a hand Fate took a hand in (= influenced) the outcome of the championship. 
an accident/quirk/turn/twist of fate It seemed a cruel twist of fate that the composer should have died so young.
the hand of fate The new job had come at just the right time for him. Was it the hand of fate? 
battle, compassion soldiers suffering from battle fatigue Compassion fatigue among donor countries means there is less money for worthy causes.
combat, fight (off), reduce The right vitamins help you combat fatigue. 
set in She had to stop work when fatigue set in.
with ~ The man was shivering with fatigue. 
in ~ soldiers in combat fatigues > Special page at CLOTHES 
personal As a personal favour to me, please don't release my story to the press.
ask I came here to ask you a favour, a big favour.
expect Although I am friends with the tennis ace, I don't expect any favours from him on court.
bestow, do, grant sb Rodrigo accepted the favours bestowed on him by the new king. Do yourself a favour and cut your credit cards in half.
owe sb I'll ask Jane. She owes me a favour.
return Thanks very much. I'll return the favour one day.
great, high, particular Traditionally, vigilante groups have found greater favour on the political right. He stood in high favour at the court of Lewis the Pious.
divine, government, political, royal In the Christian tradition, the world exists only as an act of divine favour. 
be in, enjoy, have, stand in The bishop was said to have enjoyed the king's favour.
find, gain, win Her political views have not found favour in recent years.
show As an examiner, she showed no favour to any candidate.
fall from, fall out of, lose The senior officials were punished and rapidly fell from favour. This idea has long since fallen out of favour.
be back in, bring sth back into, come back into A style of art can go out of fashion and then come back into favour fifty years later.
come down/out in, decide in, find in, resolve in, rule in, vote in The committee came down in favour of setting up a national body. The High Court found in favour of the plaintiffs.
work in Environmental conservation generally works in favour of maintaining the status quo.
go in The golf tournament went in the Americans' favour (= they won). 
in ~ of He is strongly in favour of capital punishment. Early in his musical career he abandoned blues in favour of jazz.
in sth's ~ This piece of software has two points in its favour: it's fast and inexpensive.
~ with She is too popular with the public to find much favour with the critics. 
a bias in sb/sth's favour, look with favour on/upon sb/sth Depth of training is looked upon with favour by many employers.
exceptionally, extremely, highly, very She gained a highly favourable impression of the company.
broadly, generally His proposals met with a broadly favourable response.
for Conditions are now favourable for skiing.
to The court's judgement was favourable to their client. 
to/towards She denied showing favouritism to any of her students. 
accusations of favouritism He resigned over accusations of favouritism. 
deep, great, real, terrible It was the first time she had experienced real fear.
unfounded, well-founded Our fears proved unfounded. 
experience, feel, have She did not know why she should feel such fear.
express, show, voice The boy showed no fear. Doctors have voiced fears that we may be facing an epidemic.
cause, fuel, instil This incident has fuelled fears of a full-scale war. the fear that her mother had instilled in her
allay, dispel, overcome The government is keen to allay the public's fears. She managed to overcome her fear.
live in The people live in fear of attack by the bandits. 
abate, subside When she heard the news, some of her fear subsided.
grip sb, haunt sb A sudden fear gripped him. 
for ~ of Nobody refused for fear of losing their job.
in ~ He ran away in fear.
out of ~ He lied out of fear.
through ~ The pupils obeyed through fear of punishment.
without ~ She stared at him without fear.
with ~ His face was white with fear.
~ of They have a terrible fear of failure. 
fear and trepidation The men set off in fear and trepidation.
strike fear into (the heart of) sb The sound of gunfire struck fear into the hearts of the villagers. 
leave sb, make sb The experience had left her fearful and uncertain. 
for I felt fearful for my life.
of He was fearful of every shadow. 
doubt, express doubts about, question Some of them doubted the feasibility of the proposal. 
study The local council called for a feasibility study into the new road scheme. 
great, sumptuous Villagers used to hold a great feast at harvest time.
make, prepare The women were busy preparing the wedding feast.
provide (sb with) The migrating salmon provide a delicious feast for the brown bear.
~ of a feast of Spanish food and wine 
on the ~ of on the feast of St John
~ of the feast of the Passover 
fluff (out/up) The owl fluffed out its feathers.
ruffle Its feathers were ruffled by the chill breeze.
regularly Women's magazines regularly feature diets and exercise regimes.
be featured in/on sth His work is featured in a special documentary tonight. The school has been featured on television. 
heavily, highly, largely, prominently, significantly, strongly Reading over his past speeches, you'll see that housing, public health and education feature strongly. 
in Garlic features prominently in her recipes. 
loose He proposed a loose federation of small, local groups.
international, world the International Federation of Football Clubs
athletics, soccer, etc. the British Athletics Federation
create, form, set up They were now ready to create a national labour federation. 
break up The federation broke up in 1989. 
within a/the ~ He urged them to remain within the federation.
properly, well Have they been feeding you well?
help (to) Let us discipline ourselves so as to help feed a hungry world. 
on She fed the children on baked beans and fish fingers.
to Most of the crop is fed to the cattle.
with The animals are fed with hay and grass. 
a mouth to feed He saw the new baby as just another mouth to feed. 
voraciously The bears feed voraciously in summer and store energy as fat.
busily Egrets and a solitary grey heron were busily feeding.
on The seals feed mainly on fish and squid. 
into The data is fed directly into a computer.
through This feeds the paper through to the printer.
deeply, strongly She felt her mother's death very deeply. 
about He feels very strongly about a lot of issues. 
of He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society. 
Western 
barbed-wire, chain-link, iron, mesh, metal, picket, wire, wooden There was a cottage garden at the front and a white picket fence.
over a/the ~ She leaned over the fence.
in (a) ~ The country was in ferment. 
arrive, come in, dock We watched the ferry dock.
depart, go, leave, sail The last ferry sails at 4 p.m.
cross sth the ferries that cross the River Mersey
run Ferries run every hour or so. 
by ~ We went by night ferry.
~ across/over We caught the ferry across the river.
~ between the ferry between Dundee and Tayport
~ for/to the ferry for Italy
~ from the ferry from Ramsgate to Dunkirk 
spray, spread, use He spread fertilizer on the field with a rake. 
appear at, take part in The school has taken part in the festival since 1997. 
attract sb The festival attracts thousands of visitors every year. 
at a/the ~ He's appearing at a local folk festival tonight.
Christian, Muslim, etc.
celebrate, observe The family always observes the Jewish festivals. 
blood Blood feuds and general gangsterism added to the local crime rate.
start The incident started a family feud.
~ over They had a long-running feud over money.
tell Don't tell fibs! 
notoriously The television world was a notoriously fickle one. 
be The names of the shops are entirely fictional. 
~ to They swore an oath of fidelity to their king. 
cultivated, green, ploughed looking out on the green fields of Shropshire We had to walk across a ploughed field.
work in People were working in the fields.
cultivate, work Despite the war, they continued to work the fields.
plant He planted fields full of sunflowers.
chosen, specialist All of them are experts in their chosen field.
open up This discovery has opened up a whole new field of research. 
in a/the ~ There has been no solid research in this field.
outside a/sb's ~ I can't answer that?I'm afraid it's outside my field (= outside the subject I am studying/know sth about).
trip We went on a geology field trip. 
take Today they take the field (= go on to the field to play a match) against county champions Essex. 
off the ~ Players need discipline both on and off the field (= when playing and in other areas of their lives). 
head, lead She managed to head the field across the finishing line of the London Marathon. They lead the field in home entertainment systems. 
include sb The strong field includes three world record holders. 
ahead of the ~ His superb technique puts him head and shoulders ahead of the field. 
create You will need to create separate fields for first name, surname and address.
move between the use of keys to move between fields > Special page at COMPUTER 
divide sth, go, split sth We'll divide the profit fifty-fifty. We went fifty-fifty on the meal. 
about, roughly The chances of reaching the survivors in time are about fifty-fifty. 
be prepared to, be ready to He did not believe that the enemy was ready to fight.
against They fought bravely against the enemy.
for They fought for control of the island.
back, off The jeweller was stabbed as he tried to fight the robbers off. 
against She fought hard against his strong grip.
with Riot police fought with militants demonstrating in support of the uprising. 
be determined to, be prepared to, be ready to We need a good manager who is prepared to fight for a fair share of the funds.
for Regional monopolies were bitterly fought for. 
fiercely/keenly fought The second half was keenly fought, but neither side managed to score. 
hard, like a tiger, tooth and nail (= in a very determined way) He fought hard 
against They are committed to fighting against racism.
about It's a trivial matter and not worth fighting about.
over The children will fight over quite small things.
with He's always fighting with his brother. 
reach The rate of inflation has now reached double figures.
release The government has just released new unemployment figures. 
add up These figures don't add up.
be bandied about Lots of different figures were being bandied about. 
according to (the) figures The industry remains in the doldrums, according to official figures out today.
good/bad at figures I was never very good at figures.
familiar He was a familiar figure in the local pub.
unlikely They were visited by the unlikely figure of Bill Clinton.
seated, standing, etc. The seated figure in the corner beckoned me over.
beautiful, fine, good, handsome, hour-glass, lovely She's still got a lovely figure.
cut, have He cut a dashing figure in his uniform.
keep She's kept her figure after all these years.
watch You need to watch your figure.
see See Figure 8. 
away These notes should be carefully filed away for future reference. 
under The card is filed alphabetically under the name of the editor. 
formally He has now formally filed a complaint against the police. 
with A copy of the notice must be filed with the court. 
out, past The long line of mourners filed silently past. 
of fillet of beef with a red wine sauce > Special page at FOOD 
violent She thought the film far too violent to show to children.
X-rated
Hollywood, independent
go to (see), take sb to (see) We went to an awful film last night.
direct, make, produce, shoot She makes children's films. The film was shot on location in Kenya.
cut, edit The film was heavily edited for screening on television.
distribute, release, screen, show The film was finally released after weeks of protest by religious groups.
be on, show There's an interesting film on at the local cinema.
come out, open, premiere The film came out last week.
be based on sth a film based on the novel by Charles Potter
be called sth, be entitled sth a film entitled ‘Bitter Moon’
capture sth The film manages to capture the mood of the times.
contain sth, include sth The film contains explicit scenes of violence.
depict sth, present sth, represent sth, show sth The film depicts immense courage amid the horrors of war.
tell sth This film tells the remarkable story of a disabled actor.
feature sb, star sb The film stars Nicole Kidman as a nightclub singer.
stunt He was killed when a film stunt went wrong.
set They built a massive film set of an airport.
classic the film classic ‘Fantasia’
report The news always contains several film reports.
series the ‘Star Wars’ film series
mogul Tyrannical Hollywood film moguls ruled their stars' lives.
rights The scramble for the film rights to her next novel has already begun.
in a/the ~ There is a great car chase in the film.
on ~ They captured the incident on film.
~ about a film about Queen Victoria
~ of They've just started 
fast Fast film would be best for such action shots.
deal with sth a film dealing with old age process I get my films developed
open The film opens with a bird's-eye shot of London.
crew, director, editor, maker, people, producer, team, unit, writer The film has plenty of what film people call ‘bankability’.
credits His film credits (= the films he has made) as director include ‘Mood Music’ and ‘Lies’. We stayed for the film credits (= the names of people involved in the making of a at a local shop.
expose In the darkroom they found that only half the film had been exposed.
splice He spliced the two lengths of film together. 
be covered in/with The books were covered in a thin film of dust. 
of There was a fine film of sweat on her forehead. 
leave sth, make sth He always leaves the bath absolutely filthy! 
dramatic, exciting, grand, rousing, thrilling The evening ended with a grand finale of fireworks and music.
end in/with, have, reach The match had a thrilling finale, with three goals scored in the last five minutes.
provide This victory provided a fitting finale to a brilliant season for the club. 
privately, publicly The new roads will be financed privately.
jointly financed jointly by the British and French governments
early, initial, original The original findings conflict with more recent findings.
record, write up Students were asked to conduct a survey and write up their findings in the form of a report.
announce, make public, present, publish, report The findings of the commission have not yet been made public. They will present their findings to senior police officers.
confirm, support UN official reports supported the preliminary findings that the plane was brought down by a missile.
challenge Sociologists have challenged the findings of criminologists on the behaviour of prisoners. 
be based on sth The findings are based on interviews with more than 2,000 people.
relate to sth Our findings relate to physically rather than the visually handicapped pupils.
apply to sth The findings from the case study school may apply to schools elsewhere.
indicate sth, point to/towards sth, reveal sth, show sth, suggest sth Our findings point to a lack of training among social services staff.
agree with sth, be consistent with sth, be in agreement with sth, be in line with sth, confirm sth, support sth Our recent findings are in line with those of an earlier study.
lead to sth The findings led to the conclusion that …
provide sth The research findings will provide practical assistance for teachers.
be made Similar findings were made in Spain.
emerge A similar finding emerged from a later experiment. 
~ for The findings for one group can be applied to the others.
justify The facts of this case do not justify a finding of negligence.
uphold The appeal court upheld a finding that the agreement was 
against a finding against him by the Independent Commission Against Corruption
~ in favour of The court made a finding in favour of the defendant. 
get I got a parking fine for parking on double yellow lines.
give (sb), impose, levy Heavy fines were levied on motoring offenders.
be liable for/to, face, risk Drivers risk heavy fines for driving without a licence.
be punishable by, carry, lead to The offence carries a maximum fine of £500.
in ~ The club is struggling to pay £75,000 in fines to the football league.
ring, third, wedding I noticed the ring on the third finger of her left hand.
accusatory, accusing, admonitory, warning The teacher raised a warning finger and we stopped talking.
prying The ornaments had been put out of reach of the children's prying fingers.
gentle She took off his bandages with gentle fingers.
capable, deft, nimble, skilful, skilled Her nimble fingers undid the knot in seconds.
clumsy His clumsy fingers struggled with the buttons.
point ‘It was them!’, she cried, pointing an accusing finger at the boys. 
with your ~s It's easiest to eat chicken legs with your fingers. 
the finger of fate/suspicion (figurative) The finger of suspicion was pointed at the chicken served for lunch.
set The police were able to obtain a set of fingerprints from the suspect. 
leave She was careful not to leave any fingerprints.
check (sth) for, dust sth for, examine sth for, look for The car is being examined for fingerprints.
obtain, take The investigator questioned him and took his fingerprints.
match The suspect's fingerprints have been matched with those found at the scene of the crime. 
just She had just finished dressing when the telephone rang.
off He finished off by welcoming new arrivals to the school. 
let sb Let me just finish what I'm doing. 
by He finished by telling us about his trip to Spain.
with The evening finished with a few songs. Have you finished with the vacuum cleaner yet? I need it. 
call (out), phone Dial 999 to call the fire brigade.
put sth out The fire brigade have put out a blaze in a local post office. 
blindly, wildly She fired blindly into the mass of shadows.
wide Whitlock purposely fired wide.
off They fired off a volley of shots. 
be ready to He grabbed the shotgun and levelled it, ready to fire if anyone entered.
order sb to He ordered the troops to fire over the heads of the crowd. 
at She fired a revolver at her attacker.
into He fired the gun into the air.
on/upon The police fired on protesters in the city centre. 
call (out) Firefighters were called to a house in Chaucer Avenue. 
fight sth, tackle sth Firefighters from three counties tackled a warehouse blaze.
rescue sb Firemen rescued a driver trapped in the wreckage of his car. > Note at JOB 
light Be very careful when lighting fireworks.
let off, set off They set off fireworks in their back garden. 
remain, stay Exercise is important if you want your muscles to stay firm.
make sth Use extra stuffing to make the cushions firmer.
hold, remain, stand Jo held firm: nothing else would do. We stand firm on these principles. 
with I have always been quite firm with my children. 
administer, give While one of you gives first aid, the other should call an ambulance.
be trained in At least one member of staff should be trained in first aid. 
post Medics were bringing casualties to the first-aid post. 
catch, land He landed one very big fish.
breed, farm, have, keep fish farmed in Scotland He keeps tropical fish. 
bite The fish aren't biting (= biting at the bait) today. 
clean, fillet, gut, prepare, skin I cleaned and filleted the fish.
flake Remove the skin and flake the cooked fish. 
taste This fish tastes funny. 
fish and chips, fish in batter > Special page at FOOD 
good, great This stretch of the river is renowned for its good fishing.
coarse, deep-sea, drift-net, fly-, sea One of his hobbies was fly-fishing.
game, salmon, shark, trout, etc. She has been big game fishing off the coast of Kenya.
go He goes fishing every weekend. 
area, grounds, spot, zone the rich fishing grounds off the coast of Namibia Just below that bridge is a good fishing spot.
agreement The two countries have signed a new fishing agreement.
rights Fishing rights are held by the local angling club.
licence You need a fishing licence to fish in the lake.
for Ecuador announced a ban on fishing for shrimps. 
bang, pound, slam, smack, smash, strike, thump He banged his fist loudly on the table.
shake, wave The man was shaking his fist at us through the window.
swing He swung his fists wildly at his attacker's head.
draw back She drew back her fist and threw a punch at his nose. 
in your ~ She was holding a hammer in her fist. 
be seized by/with (literary), have, suffer She suffered a major fit last year.
suffer from He suffers from fits of depression.
bring on, cause, trigger (off) He suffers from a brain disorder that can trigger off convulsive fits.
happen, occur The fits usually occur at night. 
during/in a ~ She hurt her arm during one of her fits. 
have, throw My dad will throw a fit if he finds out!
burst into, collapse in/into, erupt in/into, fall into She collapsed in a fit of laughter.
bring on The cold air brought on one of his coughing fits. 
be over, pass When her coughing fit was over she continued to speak. 
in a ~ of He pushed the referee in a fit of temper.
have sb in fits (of laughter) The comedian had them all in fits of laughter. 
good We need to achieve the best fit between the staff required and the staff available.
poor The door was a poor fit and didn't open properly.
comfortable The jersey is a comfortable fit?not too tight and not too loose.
achieve, get, produce File away any excess metal until a snug fit is achieved.
ensure The shoe has a special strap to ensure correct fit.
give (sth) The 
a lack of fit He argues that there is a lack of fit between our system of values and capitalism. 
match Hendry is back to match fitness and is expected to play. 
degree, level You need a good level of physical fitness for this sport. 
attain He has attained peak fitness this season.
maintain Regular exercise helps to maintain physical fitness.
build (up), enhance, improve, increase, work on A special trainer has been brought in to work on the tennis player's fitness.
prove The coach has given him until next week to prove his fitness. 
level First, determine your present fitness level.
fanatic, freak She's a bit of a fitness freak. She goes running every night.
health and fitness Walking is good for health and fitness. 
quick There is no quick fix to the breakdown in negotiations between the two companies.
bug The new software incorporates many bug fixes and product improvements. 
have He gets withdrawal symptoms if he hasn't had his regular fix.
be in I was in a fix.
get in/into How did you get into such a fix?
put sb in The power cut put us in a fix because we had invited people to dinner.
get (sb) out of I lent her the money to get her out of a fix. 
firmly, securely Check that the boards are all securely fixed.
rigidly His gaze was rigidly fixed ahead.
chequered Schumacher took the chequered flag to win his fourth Grand Prix of the season.
tattered A tattered flag hung from the roof of the burnt-out building. 
fly, hang (out), hoist, raise, run up a ship flying a Russian flag
wave The crowd all waved flags as the president came past.
under a/the ~ a ship sailing under a British flag
have She has a natural flair for languages.
lack His designs are all right, but he lacks artistic flair.
highly These materials are highly flammable. 
use Use a damp flannel to clean the skin. 
with a ~ She wiped his eyes and nose with a wet face flannel. 
wildly The sails flapped wildly in the stiff breeze.
suddenly Anger suddenly flared in his eyes.
briefly A light flared briefly, then went out.
up Violence flared up in the capital last night. 
flare into life The fire flared into life again. 
briefly It was only the sun, flashing briefly on her bleached hair. 
at A car flashed its headlights at me. 
angrily Her eyes flashed angrily. 
with Her eyes suddenly flashed with anger. 
hermos(R), vacuum
carry When he climbed in the snow he always carried a silver flask of brandy for emergencies.
pull out She pulled out her flask and drank from it.
of We took a flask of tea with us. 
bachelor, granny Even the prices of small bachelor flats are unbelievable. They converted two rooms of their house into a granny flat for Tony's elderly mother.
next They live in the next flat. 
block The tall blocks of flats dominated the skyline. 
have, own They have a flat in Paris and a house in Normandy.
rent, take The musician took a flat in a fashionable area of London.
let, sublet The landlady found they had been illegally subletting the flat.
find (sb), look for Do you think that the council could find me another flat?
get (sb) We got her a flat in the same block as ours.
live in, occupy, stay in Our flat is one of the two occupied in the block.
let sb/yourself into She let herself into the flat with the spare key.
be located The flat is located in a modern development.
at a/the ~ I'll meet you back at your flat.
in a/the ~ She lives in the top flat. 
convert/divide/make/turn sth into flats The house has now been converted into flats. 
on the ~ These birds live on the coastal flats. 
have The key of E flat major has three flats.
in … ~ Mendelssohn's Quintet in B flat 
far from, hardly, less than, not entirely The descriptions of her were less than flattering.
to This style of dress is flattering to most women. 
in front of She flaunted her success in front of the others. 
be The food they eat is very highly flavoured. 
with This dish is flavoured with lemon grass and garlic. 
have Unfortunately, this plate has a slight flaw in it.
discover, find, identify, see It took me a long time to find the flaw in her logic. Engineers have identified serious design flaws in the proposed nuclear waste dump.
expose, highlight, point out/to, reveal The markets have exposed the fatal flaw in the government's economic policy. 
appear Flaws have appeared in the new version of the software. 
control This drug is given to dogs to control fleas. 
operate, own He operated a small fishing fleet.
mobilize, send (in) The fleet was mobilized and the country prepared for war.
join The ship sailed to join the fleet at Barbados.
maintain The fleet was is very expensive to maintain. 
in a/the ~ There were over 500 ships in the enemy fleet.
trailing Long trailing flexes are a serious trip hazard.
cut Side cutters are useful for cutting electrical flex to length. 
make sth We need to make the working day more flexible.
infinitely Human beings are infinitely flexible and able to adjust when survival depends on it.
about My mother is fairly flexible about what time I need to be home. 
across His tongue flicked nervously across dry lips.
from He casually flicked away some dust from his jacket.
off She flicked the ash off her cigarette.
over His eyes flicked quickly over the screen. 
flick sth open She snatched up her briefcase and flicked it open. PHRASAL VERBS flick through sth 
absent-mindedly, casually, idly She flicked idly through a magazine.
nervously Her eyes flickered nervously in anticipation.
(on and) off, out The lights flickered on and off. 
across/over His gaze flickered over her. 
flicker into life The television screen flickered into life.
flicker open Katherine's eyes flickered open. 
hardly He hardly flinched when he was hit.
inwardly She flinched inwardly as he took her hand.
make sb Her finger touched the scar on his forehead, making him flinch. 
at She flinched visibly at the sight of the body.
from She flinched away from him. (figurative) She won't flinch from speaking her mind.
with He flinched with the force of the blow. 
upwards In the dream my feet leave the ground and I start to float upwards.
seem to Her voice seemed to float on the water as gently as a slight mist. 
across A few small clouds floated across the sky.
on A few leaves floated on the surface of the water. 
freely The government decided to allow the peso to float freely. 
cause Heavy rainfall in the mountains caused the floods. 
hit sth, strike sth This summer the region was struck by devastating floods.
inundate sth The meadowland was inundated by heavy floods.
cause sth The flood caused widespread destruction.
subside The floods are slowly subsiding. 
be in (full) flood The river was in full flood (= had flooded its banks). 
inundate sb/sth She was inundated by floods of fan mail. 
in floods of tears (= crying a lot) The little girl was in floods of tears. 
bare I can't sleep on the bare floor!
drop to, fall to His glass fell to the floor and broke. 
on the ~ Do you mind sitting on the floor? 
from floor to ceiling Bookcases lined the walls from floor to ceiling. 
occupy The offices occupy the two top floors of the building. 
almighty, big, resounding, spectacular The show was the biggest flop in TV history.
expensive The concert may prove an expensive flop unless more people decide to go. 
sign with Bill signed on the bottom line with a flourish. 
with a ~ With a final flourish she laid down her pen. 
poor Our shower doesn't work very well because of the poor water flow.
easy, natural I liked the concerto for its natural flow.
have Big pension funds have a constant flow of cash.
get, obtain Squeeze the tube of sealant slowly to obtain an even flow.
allow We like to allow a free flow of ideas in our company.
produce, provide The system provides a continuous flow of information to the market.
keep, maintain He kept up a flow of chatter.
ensure You must use a wide pipe to ensure an adequate flow of water.
enhance, improve, increase The company is trying to enhance its cash flow.
disrupt, impede, reduce, restrict, slow (down) The continual bombing disrupted the flow of supplies to the ground troops.
block, break (up), cut (off), halt, interrupt, staunch, stem, stop They tried to staunch the flow of blood.
divert The main flow of water has been diverted to a new course.
rate The flow rate was measured at 9.5 litres per second.
against the ~ They have to swim against the flow of the river.
~ from First cut off the water flow from the boiler.
~ into She joined the flow of immigrants to the country.
changes in the flow Changes in the flow of patients have reduced the number of beds available.
beautiful, lovely, pretty What lovely flowers!
cut They sell a few pot plants, but they mainly sell cut flowers.
closed, open The flowers were still tightly closed.
have, produce It has deep pink scented flowers. It was the first year that the cactus had produced flowers.
come into If the winter weather is mild, plants may come into flower too early.
pollinate The flowers are pollinated by insects.
arrangement, arranger, arranging I'm learning flower arranging.
in ~ It was June and the roses were in flower. 
a bank/carpet/mass of flowers The alleys were adorned with banks of flowers. The forest floor was a carpet of wild flowers.
covered in flowers The bush was absolutely covered in flowers. > Note at FLOWER 
sharply, widely, wildly Prices have fluctuated wildly in recent years.
according to Traffic congestion fluctuates according to the time of day.
around The number of boys at the school fluctuates around 100.
between The number of unemployed fluctuates between two and three million. 
achieve, acquire Some young children achieve great fluency in their reading. 
in Fluency in spoken English is essential. 
drink Change your diet and drink plenty of fluids.
retain Retaining excess fluid could be a problem. 
hot Hot drinks can cause sweating and hot flushes in the face and head. 
feel She felt a dull flush of anger creeping into her face.
bring The promise in his voice brought a warm flush to her cheeks. 
creep, rise, spread, suffuse sth A flush of embarrassment rose to her cheeks. 
of There was a faint flush of colour on those pale cheeks. 
with Her face was flushed with embarrassment. 
give His heart gave a little flutter as the ladder slipped a couple of inches. 
be in, feel She felt a flutter of excitement.
in a ~ They arrived in a flutter.
above We watched the birds flying high above us.
clear, sharp, strong The company's restructuring is designed to give a sharper focus on key growth markets.
narrow I found the focus of the debate too narrow. 
act as, give sb/sth, provide (sb/sth with), serve as Cities have always acted as the principal focus of political life.
change, shift At this stage of the trial the defence lawyer often shifts the focus onto the victim.
bring sth into This case has brought the problem of drug abuse in schools into sharp focus.
come into The question of compensation comes into focus. 
be on sb/sth Our primary focus this term will be on group work.
shift The focus has now shifted towards the problem of long-term unemployment. 
for She became a focus for all his anger.
a change/shift of focus, the focus of attention He found he was now their main focus of attention. 
come into When I got glasses suddenly the whole world came into focus (= became clear to see). 
in ~ The binoculars were not in focus (= were not showing things clearly).
out of ~ The children's faces are badly out of focus (= not clearly shown) in the photograph. 
bitter, dangerous, deadly, formidable, implacable, terrible He knew that Carlton could be an implacable foe.
old playing in the final against their old foes Italy 
vanquish (figurative) She had fought many battles, vanquished many foes. 
friend and foe His newspaper articles criticized friend and foe alike.
friend or foe She was unsure as yet whether he was friend or foe. 
cover sth with, wrap sth in I wrapped the sandwiches in kitchen foil. 
as a ~ She has used mosses as a foil for the brightly coloured flowers in the bed.
~ for/to The couple provided the perfect foil for one another. 
deftly He deftly folded the typed sheets and replaced them in the envelope.
gently Her hands lay gently folded in her lap.
in half, in two She folded the piece of paper in half.
up I folded up the clothes and put them away. 
into She folded the clothes into a neat bundle. 
common, everyday, ordinary It's the ordinary everyday folk who come to shop at this market.
men (also menfolk) He described the customs of the menfolk of his family.
visit I am going to visit my folks (= parents) at the weekend. 
say sth, talk (of sth), tell (sb) sth Folks say that he is a hard man. If only I'd listened to the old folk telling their stories. 
culture, customs, memory, myth, tradition, wisdom She had an interest in the folk customs of ancient societies.
hero He is something of a folk hero in these parts.
the folks back home The visiting team lost 3?0, dismaying the folks back home (= the people from the place the team had come from). 
closely Johnson finished first, closely followed by Stevens and Higgins.
dutifully, obediently The dog followed obediently at her heels.
blindly She followed blindly, stumbling over stones in her path.
on You go ahead and we'll follow on later. 
beckon (to) sb to She beckoned him to follow her. 
closely, quickly, shortly, swiftly The next programme will follow shortly.
not necessarily It does not necessarily follow that sleep loss would cause these symptoms. 
on) from Several conclusions follow on from his statement. 
carefully Follow my instructions very carefully.
faithfully The film follows the book faithfully.
blindly, slavishly It wasn't in his nature to follow blindly. slavishly following the views of his teachers 
be expected to, be likely to Banks are expected to follow the building societies in raising mortgage rates. 
not quite I'm sorry, but I don't quite follow you (= understand what you are saying). 
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to His argument was difficult to follow. 
cult They enjoy a cult following in the UK. 
among Top of the range Scotches attract a fanatical following among whisky buffs. 
realize, recognize, see Suddenly she saw the folly of it all.
demonstrate, show These facts demonstrate the folly of the policy.
an act of folly That would be an act of sheer folly!
the folly of your ways They have finally seen the folly of their ways.
the height of folly To sign away his rights to the book would have been the height of folly. 
othic, Victorian
for I've always had a certain fondness for her. 
awful, big, bloody (taboo), damned, great, silly, stupid You're an even bigger fool than I thought.
old (= used to show sympathy, affection or a lack of respect) The poor old fool was imprisoned on my account.
little You silly little fool!
feel (like) I felt such a fool when I realized what I'd done.
look (like) They had left me looking like a fool.
act (like), behave like, play Stop behaving like a fool! He thought that being an actor only involved tap dancing and playing the fool (= acting in a childish/funny way).
suffer, tolerate She doesn't suffer fools gladly.
take sb for He had taken me for a complete fool.
be no/nobody's (= be too clever to be deceived by sb/sth) She's nobody's fool. She had the car checked by a mechanic before buying it. 
like a ~ Like a fool, I told her everything.
~ of a sth That fool of a doctor has prescribed me the wrong medicine! 
make a fool (out) of sb/yourself She was angry at having been made a fool of.
more fool (sb) I thought it was safe to leave my suitcase there. More fool me (= I was stupid to think so). 
back, front He shifted his weight onto his back foot.
flat He was excused military service because of his flat feet.
bare It's dangerous to walk on the beach in/with bare feet.
booted, stockinged the rumble of many booted feet on the bridge He padded across the room in his stockinged feet (= wearing socks but no shoes).
webbed Ducks' webbed feet help them to swim.
silent He slipped across the corridor on silent feet.
leaden (figurative) He walked towards the examination room with leaden feet (= slowly).
winged (figurative) She flew on winged feet (= fast) up the narrow stair. 
get to, jump to, leap to, rise to, scramble to He got shakily to his feet.
be on I've been on my feet all day and I need to sit down for a rest.
plant, put I planted my feet firmly on the chair and reached up to the top window. She put her foot down on the accelerator and the car lurched forward.
raise He raised his foot off the accelerator pedal.
swing He swung a foot at the ball but missed completely.
drag She dragged her feet as she reluctantly followed her parents.
wipe Wipe your feet when you come in from the street.
tread on That man trod on my foot and he didn't even apologize. 
catch His foot caught in the cable and he fell under the train.
slip My foot slipped as I was about to shoot and I missed the ball.
crunch, patter, pound, shuffle I heard feet crunching over the gravel outside the house.
dangle I sat by the river with my feet dangling in the water.
kick They carried him out of the room with his feet kicking.
sink My feet sank deep into the mud. 
passenger, soldier Foot passengers were allowed to leave the ferry before the vehicles.
beneath/under your ~ The snow crunched beneath her feet.
from ~ to ~ They looked unsure and shifted uneasily from foot to foot.
on ~ The city is best explored on foot.
in the/your ~ He's broken several bones in his left foot.
with the/your ~ She kicked the ball with her right foot. 
the ball of the/your foot I squatted down to speak to the boy, balancing on the balls of my feet.
from head to foot She was dressed from head to foot in 
the sole of the/your foot The soles of my feet were covered in blisters. 
keep He struggled to keep his footing on the slippery floor.
be sure of She looked over her shoulder to be sure of her footing.
give (sb), provide (sb with) The sole of this shoe will give a firm footing even on slippery surfaces. 
equal, the same All claimants stand on an equal legal footing.
permanent The arrangement was put on a permanent footing earlier this year.
war The army was placed on a war footing (= prepared for war). 
be on, stand on The two teams stand on an equal footing.
gain Town planning procedures gained a footing in local government.
get (sb/sth) off on Being inconsiderate to the doctor will get you off on the wrong footing.
get (sth) on, place sth on, set sth on We need to get the business on a sound footing.
leave, make The intruder had left some clear footprints in the flower beds. Her wet boots made footprints on the dusty floor.
find The detective found fresh footprints in the mud next to the victim.
follow They had fled through the snow, and police had followed their footprints. 
show She showed some nimble footwork and looked a promising player. 
gale The wind was increasing to gale force. 
resort to, use In the end, we had to resort to brute force to get the door open.
take sth by The troops marched in and took the city by force.
feel Even the opposition MPs felt the force of the prime minister's argument. 
by ~ The king made laws and imposed them by force. 
catch/experience/feel/meet/take the full force of sth Our shop took the full force of the bomb blast. I felt the full force of her criticism.
meet force with force The country's attempts to meet force with force (= resist an attack using force) led to the outbreak of war.
the use of force The regulations allow the use of force if necessary. 
external, internal Deep internal forces cause movements of the earth's crust.
exert The sun exerts a force on the earth.
balance The forces of expansion are balanced by forces of contraction. 
field the force field of a magnet (figurative) It was as if an invisible force field kept us apart. 
binding, legal, statutory The contract was not signed and has no binding force. 
come into The new law comes into force as from midnight tomorrow.
in ~ Some laws relating to obsolete customs are still in force. 
the force of law Professional standards often do not have the force of law (= cannot be enforced). 
destructive, disruptive, negative, subversive She was seen as a potentially subversive force within the party.
external, international, outside The play portrays a marriage torn apart by external forces.
dark, demonic, evil, malevolent ‘There are dark forces in the universe,’ he raved, ‘and we are powerless against them!’
remain Though officially retired, she remains the creative force behind the design business.
balance This is a politician who does not like to balance market forces. 
behind Local parents were the driving force behind the project.
~ for Competition is a force for change in industry. 
a balance of forces shifts in the balance of political forces in Europe
a force to be reckoned with With its new players, the team is now very much a force to be reckoned with. 
crack, elite, special These elite forces are the best equipped and trained in the world.
combined, joint the combined forces of MI5 and Scotland Yard a joint task force
assault, defence, expeditionary, fighting, invasion, peace, peacekeeping, police, security, strike (See also task force.)
assemble, create, form, mobilize, set up A large expeditionary force is now being assembled.
deploy, use A small peacekeeping force will be deployed in the area.
join She decided to join the armed forces.
combine, join The two companies have joined forces to form a new consortium. 
control sth Rebel forces now control most of the capital. 
a member of a force, the withdrawal of a force a UN deadline for the withdrawal of forces 
short-term a short-term forecast of the UK economy
give, issue, make, provide The government has issued a pessimistic economic forecast.
be in line with The interest rate is in line with the forecast. 
predict sth, say sth, suggest sth Some forecasts suggest that the increase in heart disease will continue for some time.
about Forecasts about the economy are often misleading.
remain at/in Education remains at the forefront of the state's planning.
come into/to She came to the forefront as governor after the political change.
bring sb/sth to, place sb/sth at/in/to, push sb/sth into/to, put sb/sth (back) at/in, take sb/sth into/to, thrust sb/sth into/to The new factory could put the town back at the forefront of steelmaking. 
at/in/to the forefront of sb's mind This question remained at the forefront of her mind. 
hit, rub, slap, smack, tap He groaned and slapped his forehead, as if suddenly remembering something obvious. 
across your ~ He rubbed a hand across his forehead as though he were tired.
from your ~ He wiped the sweat from his forehead.
in the ~ He went to bed complaining of a pain in the forehead.
off your ~ She pushed her wet hair off her forehead.
over your ~ His hair fell over his forehead. 
have He had had the foresight to bring in the washing before the rain started.
show The plans showed great foresight.
quite I suspect that Rodney has never quite forgiven either of them.
easily Donna would not easily forgive Beth's silly attempt to trick her. 
be able/unable to, can/could I couldn't forgive him.
be easy to An insult like that isn't easy to forgive.
ask sb to, beg sb to He fell to his knees and begged God to forgive him.
for She never forgave him for losing her ring. 
forgive and forget He was not the sort of man to forgive and forget. 
willingly She would willingly forgo a birthday treat if only her warring parents would declare a truce. 
have to Time to prepare was a luxury he would have to forgo.
be, feel, look, seem, sound, stand The house stood forlorn and empty.
quite, utterly She didn't belong, and felt utterly forlorn.
ask sb to, invite sb to The leader of the party with the most seats is invited to form a government.
into She formed the clay into a ball. 
fully formed The plan came in a flash of inspiration, fully formed.
mere, simple Your acceptance into the club will be a mere formality.
complete, deal with, go through It only took a few minutes to complete the legal formalities.
dispense with Let's dispense with the formalities and get down to work. 
just/merely/only a formality She was clearly the best candidate for the job, so her interview was just a formality. 
degree, level It is important to be aware of the level of formality required at any social function. 
maintain She preferred to maintain a cool formality in her dealings with her manager. 
lead to, result in This dispute led to the formation of a new breakaway group. 
battle The troops advanced in battle formation.
in a … ~ The men were grouped in a close formation.
devise, work out A simple mathematical formula has been devised to allow you to calculate the interest due.
for Do you know the formula for finding the area of a circle? 
face-saving The government was forced to find a face-saving formula to cover its misjudgement.
peace No one has yet come up with a successful peace formula.
have No one has a magic formula for keeping youngsters away from crime.
come up with, devise, find, hit on, provide, work out We think we might have hit on a winning formula. 
for What is their formula for success? 
Iron Age, Roman, Saxon, etc. an Iron Age hill fort 
hold Government forces managed to hold the fort. 
be/come under attack, be/come under siege The fort was under attack for three days.
fall The fort finally fell after a week of intense fighting. 
at/in a/the ~ All was calm at the fort that night. 
characteristically MacTavish was characteristically forthright in his reply. 
about She's always been very forthright about her preferences. 
spend We've spent the last fortnight in Spain. 
elapse, go by, pass A fortnight passed and we still hadn't heard from them. 
after a/the ~, during a/the ~, for a/the ~, in a/the ~ We hope to leave in the next fortnight.
consider sb, count yourself, think sb We consider ourselves extremely fortunate. 
indeed He was indeed fortunate in his friends. 
for It was fortunate for us that the rain stopped.
in We are fortunate in having quite a lot of land. 
for The conference provides a useful forum for the exchange of views and ideas. 
open The film show was followed by an open forum on editing techniques.
on An international forum on economic development took place in Brussels. 
rule out The police have ruled out foul play in the case of his death. 
be guilty of He was clearly guilty of foul play and deserved to be sent off. 
shake, undermine The thunder seemed to shake the very foundations of the building. They had dug too deep and undermined the foundations of the house. 
stone In 1853 Queen Victoria laid the foundation stone of the new palace. 
build, lay, provide (sth with) This agreement laid a sound foundation for future cooperation between the two countries.
build on We now have a firm foundation to build on.
rest on The peace treaty rests on shaky foundations.
rock, shake, strike at, threaten, undermine an event which rocked the foundations of British politics 
course, year The Fine Arts degree starts with a foundation year.
subjects All students have to do the foundation subjects of maths and English. 
rock/shake sth to its foundations The scandal rocked the legal establishment to its foundations. 
without ~ Rumours of his resignation are entirely without foundation. 
drinking Children were queuing at the drinking fountain. 
play, splash A white marble fountain played in the middle of the square. 
across the ~, in the ~ We arranged to meet up in the foyer of the Hyatt hotel. 
fatigue, stress He suffered a stress fracture of the right foot.
have This perfume has a light, fresh fragrance.
fill sth The fragrance of lavender filled the room.
be reminiscent of sth Geranium oil has a sweet fragrance reminiscent of roses. 
mentally, physically Many old people become mentally frail. 
old and frail She looked old and frail. 
have She has quite a small frame. 
qualify for It was decided that all men in the armed forces should qualify for the franchise.
exercise He had to exercise the franchise on behalf of other council members.
enlarge, extend, widen After the Second World War the franchise was extended to all adults over eighteen.
acquire, buy, win The company has just won a television franchise.
award (sb), give sb, grant sb The franchise was awarded to a French company.
auction, sell TV franchises will be auctioned to the highest bidder.
lose The ITV licensee lost its franchise to Carlton TV. 
for The diving school has acquired a franchise for scuba equipment. 
on a franchise basis Catering in the schools is run on a franchise basis. 
drive sb The children have been driving me frantic all day! 
absolutely, quite He was quite frantic by the time we got home.
with We were starting to get frantic with worry. 
accident, result, storm, wave A driver was killed in a freak accident when a cow fell from a bridge. The manager described the 8?0 defeat as a freak result. 
of This was no more than a freak of history. 
by some freak of sth By some freak of fate, she won an enormous sum of money. 
computer, fitness, health, speed For the real speed freak, there is a 2-litre, fuel-injection version of the car.
control Her dad seems to be a bit of a control freak, always keeping a close watch on what anybody's doing. 
regard sb as Other students regarded him as a freak. 
a bit of a freak I felt a bit of a freak in my strange clothes. 
leave sb The government wants to leave companies free to make their own decisions. 
completely, entirely, quite, totally The students are entirely free to choose their own courses.
from The organization wants to remain free from government control. 
break, get, pull, walk The ship broke free from its moorings. They tied him up but he managed to get free. She managed to pull free of her attacker. She walked free from jail.
cut sb/sth, let sb/sth, pull sb/sth, set sb/sth He was trapped by his leg, but his rescuers cut him free. They let their prisoner free. The birds were set free. 
be, come This full-colour poster comes free with the magazine. 
for free We might be able to get some plants for free.
free of charge We will send you our booklet free of charge. 
keep sth We've managed to keep the garden free of weeds this year. 
completely, entirely, totally At last he's totally free from pain.
keep sth The hospital needs to keep some beds free for emergencies. 
be Are you free this afternoon?
keep sth We try and keep Sundays free. 
considerable, great The new syllabus allows students greater freedom of choice.
basic, fundamental Living without war is a fundamental freedom.
individual, personal Individual freedom should be balanced against the rights of the community.
new-found When she lost her job, she at first relished her new-found freedom.
academic, artistic, creative, economic, intellectual, political, press, religious, sexual Without academic freedom, we cannot do any research. 
measure Teachers can exercise a measure of freedom in their choice of materials. 
enjoy, have Publishers here enjoy comparative freedom to publish what they want.
enjoy, relish I was enjoying the freedom of not having to go to work.
achieve, gain, obtain, secure, win The women have won many new freedoms for themselves.
give up, lose, surrender As Mike saw it, marriage would mean giving up his freedom.
cost sb His inability to resist temptation would eventually cost him his freedom.
curtail, inhibit, reduce, restrict, threaten I don't want to curtail my daughter's freedom. Our freedom was threatened by press censorship. 
~ in Branch managers have considerable freedom in running their offices.
~ of The Official Secrets Act was amended to allow greater freedom of information. 
big The weather report advised us to prepare for a big freeze. 
bring in, impose The government has imposed a price freeze on petrol.
lift It's too expensive to lift the freeze on pay. 
centre They bought all their frozen food from the same freezer centre.
contents Your freezer contents can be insured against loss. 
be, feel, look That water looks freezing. 
absolutely It's absolutely freezing out there! 
freezing cold It was a freezing cold day. 
rench noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
relative The relative frequency of this illness in the area is of concern to all doctors.
alarming Bullets bounced off the rock with alarming frequency. 
decrease in, increase in Crime increases in frequency in less settled neighbourhoods.
decrease, increase, reduce The drug can reduce the frequency and severity of attacks. 
with ~ Accidents of this sort are happening with increasing frequency. 
stay Mushrooms don't stay fresh for long.
eat sth, have sth It's best to eat them fresh.
keep sth Put it in the fridge to keep it fresh. 
lovely/nice (and) fresh There's some cold beef and a nice fresh loaf. 
riday noun > Note at DAY 
best, bosom, close, dear, good, great, intimate, real, special Her best friend at school was called Anna. I'm inviting only my closest friends to the party.
lifelong, long-standing, old It was so relaxing to be among old friends.
female, male, woman He was last seen leaving a restaurant with a female friend.
fair-weather People he had trusted turned out to be only fair-weather friends (= stopped being his friends when he was in trouble).
mutual We met each other through a mutual friend.
childhood, school Do you keep in touch with any school friends? 
become They became friends after meeting on holiday.
remain, stay We stayed friends even after we grew up and left home.
find, make He finds it difficult to make friends. She's made friends with the little girl who lives next door.
win He won't win any friends if he carries on talking like that.
have She doesn't have many good friends. 
a circle of friends He introduced me to his circle of friends.
a friend of mine, yours, etc. I was given this necklace by a good friend of mine. 
exceptionally, extremely, genuinely, really, very Frank was a genuinely friendly sort.
perfectly He seemed detached, almost bored, but perfectly friendly.
almost For once he seemed almost friendly.
not exactly, not particularly Her manner was not exactly friendly
to, towards He was always friendly towards me. 
pretty, quite They were quite friendly when they worked together. 
with She's very friendly with Maureen. 
be on friendly terms (with sb) We have managed to remain on friendly terms. 
child-/family-friendly Employers are being encouraged to adopt family-friendly measures like flexible hours.
die of (informal) He almost died of fright when the fish jumped out of the water. 
in ~ She cried out in fright.
with ~ They were paralysed with fright.
~ at The birds took fright at the sight of the cat and flew off. 
get, have Emma got such a fright that she dropped the tray. I had a terrible fright this morning when I saw you there.
a bit of a fright, the fright of your life You gave me the fright of my life, jumping out like that!
become, get I got quite frigntened when he lost his temper.
physically I felt frightened, physically frightened. 
about I was nervous and frightened about the future.
at Simon was badly frightened at the result of his action.
by Most of us are frightened by our emotions.
of I'm rather frightened of dogs. 
frightened out of your wits, frightened to death (both informal) She was frightened to death when she saw her small daughter on the edge of the cliff. 
cut, trim My fringe needs trimming.
brush, push She kept brushing her fringe off her forehead. 
from beneath/under your ~ She stared at us from beneath her fringe.
in a ~ She has her hair pulled forward in a fringe. 
delinquent, lunatic the delinquent fringe of the Nationalist Party 
keep to, remain on, stand on He has always remained on the fringes of mainstream politics. 
theatre, venue He moved from fringe theatre to mainstream when he was chosen to play a leading role on Broadway. 
along the ~ the forests along the eastern fringe of the Andes
at the ~ They pitched their tents at the fringe of the open fields.
beyond the ~ Beyond this marginal fringe no agriculture is possible.
on the ~(s) These people live on the fringes of society. 
eastern, western, etc. Thousands were killed on the eastern front. 
send sb to Even young teenagers were sent to the front. 
at the ~ A new battalion arrived at the front.
on the~ They had to fight on two fronts. 
put on She put on a brave front, but I knew how miserable she was. 
for Her aggressive behaviour is just a front for her shyness. 
present a united front However much the directors disagree with each other, they always present a united front to the world. 
early, first, late The young plants all died in the late frost.
touch There was just a touch of frost in the air.
degree There were ten degrees of frost last night. 
set in The winter frosts have set in up north.
nip at sth The sharp frost nipped at our noses. 
be covered in/with The windows were covered in frost. 
melt The car was wet with melting frost. 
give The boy gave a small frown.
wear She wore a worried frown.
crease into, pucker into, wrinkle in Her face creased into a frown.
be drawn/draw together in His brows drew together in a frown. 
deepen, grow darker/deeper Her frown grew deeper at the memory.
crease sth Her frown creased her forehead.
marr sth A frown marred his handsome features.
cross sth, touch sth A frown crossed her brow. 
a frown in your eyes He looked at her with a puzzled frown in his eyes.
piece Finish the meal with a piece of fresh fruit. 
bear The crab apple bears a small, bitter fruit.
enjoy Their work left them enough time to enjoy the fruits of their success.
reap He was now reaping the fruits of all his hard work. 
come to, reach Their efforts came to fruition many years later.
bring sth to It was left to her successor to bring the plan to its full fruition. 
leave sb, make sb This failure leaves the child depressed and frustrated. 
a bit, a little, quite, rather, slightly She sounded rather frustrated to me.
at Both sides in the dispute appeared very frustrated at the lack of progress.
by We were frustrated by the long delays.
with Sometimes he gets really frustrated with his violin playing. 
sheer I shouted at him in sheer frustration.
experience, feel, seethe with He was still seething with angry frustration.
express, show, take out, vent He took his pent-up frustration out on his family.
cause, lead to These petty rules can lead to frustration and anger. 
in ~ He clenched his fists in frustration.
through ~ Several people resigned through frustration.
~ at Many have expressed frustration at the delays.
a feeling/sense of frustration, tears of frustration There were tears of frustration in her eyes. 
spent The plant reprocesses spent fuel from nuclear power stations. 
burn, run on, use power stations which burn fossil fuels What sort of fuel does the car run on?
burn sth as, use sth as The power plant burns used vehicle tyres as fuel.
economy, efficiency The engine gives good fuel economy.
amply, really He amply fulfilled the weight of expectation that they had placed on him.
not quite Turkey is a market that has never quite fulfilled its potential.
admirably The building is still fulfilling its original purpose admirably.
be able/unable to, can/could Alan was finally able to fulfil his promise to Sarah.
must Students must fulfil the following entry criteria.
become, get The garage has got full of junk again.
leave sth He left the bath full of water. 
absolutely, completely The kitchen was absolutely full of flies!
almost, nearly, virtually The reservoirs are all virtually full.
of The bottle was half full of mineral water. 
fairly, pretty, quite Her wine glass was still quite full. 
full up I'm full up. I can't eat another thing. 
cloud Clouds of toxic fumes escaped from the chemical plant. 
give off, produce The fire gave off choking fumes. an industrial process which produces toxic fumes
kill sb, overcome sb A firefighter was overcome by fumes at a blaze in a plastics factory.
escape Sometimes exhaust fumes escape into the vehicle. 
dual The committee has a dual function, both advisory and regulatory.
bodily, brain, liver, mental, etc. Fortunately, his head injuries left his bodily functions unimpaired. 
carry out, fulfil, perform, serve All members carry out their own particular functions. The club serves a useful function as a meeting place. 
charity, official, social The princess attended a charity function in aid of cancer research. 
room The wedding reception will be held in the Swan Hotel's function room. 
appeal, charitable, charity The newspaper launched an appeal fund for victims of the disaster.
create, establish, launch, set up, start They set up an investment fund to provide money for their retirement.
draw on They don't want to draw on the fund unless they have to. 
in a/the ~ There is currently over £200,000 in the fund.
into a/the ~ The money received is paid directly into a pension fund. 
limited There are only limited funds available.
have We have insufficient funds to pay for the building work.
be out of, be short of We are short of funds at the moment, so we are not going on holiday.
appeal for The school is appealing for funds to invest in new equipment.
allocate, lend, make available, provide, release Funds will be made available to ensure the provision of hospital services.
channel, direct, use The government is to channel more funds into local development schemes. 
~ from Funds from the event will support the work of the hospice. 
access to funds The current account offers savers instant access to funds.
a lack/shortage of funds The project was hampered by lack of funds. > Special page at BUSINESS 
consider sth, regard sth as We consider these freedoms fundamental to democracy. 
absolutely, quite This principle is clear and absolutely fundamental.
to Improved funding is fundamental to the success of the project. 
external, outside Half the university research posts depend on outside funding.
give sb/sth, grant sb/sth, provide (sb/sth with) The refusal to grant extra funding to schools in the poorest areas caused a political storm.
~ for The president called for greater funding for housing for the poor.
~ from The school has attracted funding from a number of sources.
a cut/an increase in funding, a lack of funding, a level of funding Present levels of funding have forced the school to cut its teaching staff.
become, get The movie gets funnier towards the end.
achingly, bloody (taboo), brilliantly, dead, extraordinarily, extremely, genuinely, hilariously, hysterically, really, riotously, terribly, uproariously, very, wickedly, wildly, wonderfully At last, a genuinely funny comedy show! His performance was hilariously funny. You should have seen it?it was terribly funny!
be, feel, look, seem, smell, sound, strike sb as, taste Didn't it strike you as funny that Adam wasn't there? This wine tastes funny.
find sth Don't you find it a bit funny that she never mentions her husband? 
a bit, a little, pretty, rather Helen gave me a rather funny look. 
funny little He's a funny little man.
funny old It's a funny old world, isn't it? 
make sb Their incompetence made me furious. 
about He was simply furious about what had happened to his mother.
at The prime minister is said to be furious at the newspaper report.
over She was still furious over suggestions that she had lied to the public.
with I got absolutely furious with him. 
fully The flat is fully furnished.
attractively, beautifully, charmingly, comfortably, elegantly, expensively, luxuriously, nicely, ornately, pleasantly, prettily, richly, sumptuously, tastefully, well His rooms were comfortably furnished. The villa was expensively furnished throughout.
individually Each of the ten bedrooms is individually furnished. 
cause, create, provoke His choice of words created quite a furore. 
amid a/the ~ (of) His resignation passed almost unnoticed amid the furore of the elections.
~ among The sale of the two best players caused a furore among the fans. 
controlled, inner, pent-up He growled with barely controlled fury. 
be beside yourself with, be shaking with, feel He was beside himself with fury. I had never felt such fury before.
vent He vented his fury on a telephone box.
arouse, drive sb to, provoke That kind of treatment would drive anyone to fury. The decision to close the factory has provoked fury. 
drain, fade His face and body sagged as the fury drained from him. 
in (a) ~ She turned on him in a fury.
with ~ He reacted with cold fury
~ against Her fury against him rose.
~ at He kicked the tree in fury at his own stupidity. 
turn your fury on sb I hoped she wouldn't turn her fury on me. 
cause, kick up, make She kicked up an awful fuss when she heard about it. 
blow over, die down Once the fuss has blown over, we'll be able to get on with work as usual. 
without ~ They left quietly, without fuss.
~ about She made a big fuss about not having a window seat on the plane.
~ over I think it's all a lot of fuss over nothing. 
make a fuss of sb The children were all making a great fuss of the new baby.
with the minimum of fuss The job was done with the minimum of fuss. 
know, realize, see, sense She could see the utter futility of trying to protest. 
become, go The screen suddenly went fuzzy. 
all, extremely, very The truck's headlights were all fuzzy and ghostlike.
all My hair's gone all fuzzy!
put on They tied him up and put a gag on him.
running There was this running gag about a penguin (= they kept telling penguin jokes). 
big, considerable, huge, major, real, significant, substantial This change in the tax system will mean big gains for some companies.
net, overall Labour made an overall gain of 39 seats.
ill-gotten She tucked her ill-gotten gains into her purse and left.
commercial, economic, financial, material There will be no financial gain for mothers from this new system.
weight She was most upset by her recent weight gain.
efficiency, productivity There is still scope for efficiency gains (= gains to be made by being more efficient). 
bring (sb) Better workplace design can bring real gains in productivity. 
for ~ It's amazing what some people will do for gain.
~ in Last year there was only a modest gain in earnings. 
with a ~ He walked with a rolling gait. 
desperate It was time for a last desperate gamble.
pay off, work I took a calculated gamble and it paid off. 
on Backpackers with a heavy load should resist taking a gamble on the weather. 
a bit/something of a gamble Trying to find the right pension can be a bit of a gamble. 
compulsive He went to a psychiatrist about his compulsive gambling.
illegal The police are trying to stop all illegal gambling.
debt She ran up gambling debts worth a million pounds.
man If I were a gambling man, I'd put my money on him resigning soon. 
of The exhibition runs the whole gamut of artistic styles. 
set in The wound was not properly disinfected and gangrene set in. > Special page at ILLNESS 
fill, seal Seal the gaps around the windows with an exterior-quality sealant. 
appear, open up He flashed his headlights and jumped lanes whenever a gap opened up. 
through a/the ~ A rabbit ran along the fence and darted through a gap.
~ between Position the tiles, leaving a narrow gap between the edges.
~ in A huge gap had appeared in the hedge. 
year I'm planning to travel in my gap year (= the year between school and university). 
after a/the ~ She returned to teaching after a twelve-year gap.
age, generation Despite the age gap, romance blossomed.
credibility Newspapers were talking of a credibility gap between what he said and what he did.
separate sb/sth He realized how narrow was the gap separating him from his pagan ancestors. 
between The gap between rich and poor widened. 
create, leave His death left a huge gap in my life.
close, fill (in), plug Her appointment will fill the gap created when the marketing manager left. 
a gap in the market We think we've identified a gap in the market (= a business opportunity to make or sell sth that is not yet available). 
in a/the ~ Don't forget to put the car in the garage. 
take sth to I took the car to the local garage to get it fixed. 
at a/the ~ The car's still at the garage. 
jobbing She employs a jobbing gardener to keep the garden tidy.
assistant, head head gardener to the Duke of Devonshire
organic The organic gardener avoids the use of pesticides.
landscape, market > Note at JOB 
sausage > Special page at FOOD 
nerve, tear Police used water cannon and tear gas against demonstrators. 
give off, produce It gives off a poisonous gas as it rots down. 
build up Noxious gases had built up in the sewer.
escape, leak Toxic gases can escape through one of the pipes. 
bottled, Calor 
cook with I prefer to cook with gas.
light, turn on I lit the gas and put the soup on to warm. 
field tapping the North Sea gas fields
works Local gas works were closed as natural gas became available.
leak All gas leaks should be reported as soon as possible. 
gas mark 2, 3, etc. Set the oven at gas mark 4. 
bring The stunt brought shocked gasps from the audience.
between ~s ‘Listen carefully,’ he said, between gasps of breath.
in ~s He leant against the railing, his breath coming in short gasps.
with a ~ She spun round with a little gasp of delight.
~ of > Note at SOUND 
great The great gates of the abbey were shut fast.
bar, close, fasten, lock, shut Don't forget to shut the gate when you leave. The defenders had closed and barred all the city gates.
go through Go through the gate and continue down the track. 
open, swing open The heavy gate swung open.
close, shut The gate shut behind him. 
through a/the ~ He led us through a gate into a little garden. 
attend, go to Women are not allowed to attend public gatherings.
have, hold, organize We're having a small family gathering to mark our wedding anniversary.
of The prime minister addressed a gathering of local government officials. 
a gathering of the clan/clans (humorous) All the children and grandchildren are going to my parents' at Christmas for the annual gathering of the clan. 
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to It is difficult to gauge accurately how much fuel is needed 
direct, fixed, level, steady, unblinking, watchful She felt embarrassed under his steady gaze.
blue, brown, dark, grey His deep blue gaze held hers.
public (figurative) Pop stars are constantly exposed to the public gaze. 
direct, fix (sb with), focus, turn They fixed their gaze on the dark line of the coast ahead. She fixed him with a level gaze. He turned his gaze on me.
meet She refused to meet my gaze.
follow I followed her gaze and spotted a new arrival at the far side of the room.
avert, drop, lower She deliberately averted her gaze when he came in.
avoid She avoided his gaze. 
drift, flick, flicker, fly, move, rake (sth), roam (sth), run, shift, slide, sweep (sth), travel, wander His gaze flickered an instant. His gaze flickered over the room.
follow sth Her gaze followed Simon's through the archway.
fix on sth, lock (with sth), meet sth Her gaze fixed on his and held it unblinkingly. His gaze locked with hers.
linger, rest Rebecca's gaze rested on the child thoughtfully.
fall Her gaze fell on Kate's tousled hair.
narrow The dark gaze narrowed. 
under sb's ~ He blushed under her angry gaze. 
engage, select Engage first gear and move off.
change, change into, move into, put/slam/slip sth into, shift (into), switch It's difficult to steer and change gear at the same time. She put the car into first gear and drove off. (figurative) The party organization is moving into top gear as the election approaches.
move up, step up (often figurative) Coming out of the final bend, the runner stepped up a gear to overtake the rest of the pack.
crash, grind He was crashing the gears because he was so nervous. 
change She made a smooth gear change.
in (a/the) ~ driving along in third gear Some drivers leave the car in gear when parking on hills.
out of ~ Leave the car out of gear. 
be dressed in, have on, wear She had her running gear on.
absolute, real The second side of their new album contains some real gems.
hidden She worked in the antiques trade, searching out hidden gems in the most unlikely places.
architectural architectural gems like York Minster 
a gem of a sth This is a little gem of a flower. 
pass on The gene is passed on to their children. 
be responsible for sth, cause sth, control sth, influence sth Genes control the development of an embryo.
pool Scientists have estimated that a gene pool of at least 300 animals is necessary to maintain a healthy tiger population.
defect, mutation Gene mutations are alterations in the DNA code.
for An individual may pass on to future generations its genes for tallness. 
about The author makes several sweeping generalizations about the causes of the crisis. 
automatically, spontaneously People used to believe that dirt spontaneously generated disease.
be used to The wind turbines are used to generate electricity.
be expected to, be likely to The lottery is expected to generate substantial funds for charities. 
from Living cells generate energy from food. profits generated from the company's activities 
drive, power A water turbine drives the generator. 
deliver sth The wind generator delivers 120 watts in a strong breeze. 
become, get John's getting very generous with the wine! 
amazingly, exceedingly, exceptionally, extraordinarily, extremely, incredibly, most, very, wonderfully You have been most generous.
excessively, overly The review panel criticized the payments as overly generous.
of Thank you for your donation. It was very generous of you.
to They have been extremely generous to the mosque.
with She's quite generous with her praise. 
mass Refugees gave accounts of the mass genocide.
against genocide against ethnic minorities > Note at CRIME(for verbs) 
perfect, real, true He's a real gentleman, always kind and considerate. 
be no gentleman He may be a lord, but he's no gentleman.
too much of a gentleman He was too much of a gentleman to ask them for any money. 
country, landed He retired to his estate in Norfolk, and lived the life of a country gentleman. 
economic, historical, human, physical, political, social > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
Euclidean
sacred Pre-Christian sacred geometry was incorporated into church architecture. > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
erman measles noun > Special page at ILLNESS 
wildly He gesticulated wildly as he tried to make her understand. 
at The other woman was gesticulating at the ambulance.
towards The officer gesticulated towards the refugees.
at She gestured at him to step back.
about/around He gestured around the room, lost for words.
for He gestured abruptly for Virginia to get in the car.
to Mrs Davis gestured to the waiter.
towards He gestured vaguely towards the house.
a gentle giant Some people are intimidated by his size, but in fact he's a gentle giant.
a giant of a man He was a giant of a man, standing nearly seven feet tall. 
car, chemicals, financial, food, industrial, oil, retail, etc. The oil giant Esso is planning to set up a new refinery in the port.
literary Camus is considered to be one of the twentieth century's literary giants. 
among/amongst The Amazon is a giant amongst rivers.
~ of The company is now one of the giants of the computer industry. 
expensive, generous, kind, lavish, valuable Thank you all for your kind gifts. She received lavish gifts of jewellery and clothes.
free When you place your first order with us, we will send you the free gift of your choice.
birthday, Christmas, parting, retirement, wedding
bear, bring (sb), exchange, give sb, make sb, offer sb He arrived home bearing gifts for everyone. They gave each other gifts at Christmas. She wanted to make a gift to her grandchildren.
accept, get, receive Please accept this small gift. The children all received gifts. 
box, pack, set, token, voucher New customers will receive a free gift pack containing a selection of our products. a gift set of shampoo, soap and hand cream
as a ~ The messengers brought the king a fine suit of armour as a gift.
~ for There were gifts for all the children.
~ from This vase was a gift from my mother.
~ to The golf clubs were her gift to her husband. 
God-given, innate, natural, special
for She has a natural gift for music. 
do, play (in) They're doing a gig in Leeds tonight.
at a/the ~ They're performing at a local pub gig. 
helplessly, hysterically, nervously The children giggled hysterically. 
about They giggled about their teacher's accident.
at We giggled at the picture.
with The children giggled with delight. 
drink, have ‘What are you drinking?’ ‘I'll have a gin and tonic, please.’
pour (sb) She poured herself a large gin. 
make sb The smell of the sea air makes you glad to be alive! 
awfully, extremely, heartily, only too, really, terribly, very She was only too glad to escape them all.
just I'm just glad it's all over.
almost Danny looked almost glad to be going.
secretly She was secretly glad of his company. 
about What have I got to be glad about?
for We're glad for you both.
of I was quite glad of his help. 
touch Several film stars were invited to add a touch of glamour to the occasion. 
have He had a glamour about him that she found very attractive.
lack Jumbo jets somehow lack the glamour of the transatlantic liner.
add, give sb/sth, lend sb/sth Her long dark hair lent her a certain glamour. 
briefly, quickly, sharply Norton glanced sharply at him.
anxiously, fearfully, nervously She glanced nervously over her shoulder.
covertly He glanced covertly at his watch.
barely, hardly She barely glanced at him.
down, up She glanced up at him. 
pause to, turn to He turned to glance in our direction.
happen to At that moment she happened to glance up. 
about/around/round She glanced around the room.
across/over She glanced across to where the others were standing chatting.
at She glanced briefly at his lapel badge.
towards He glanced towards the kitchen. 
back I looked at her and she glared angrily back. 
down/up) at He stood at the bottom of the stairs, glaring up at us. 
dark, sun (also sunglasses), tinted I wear blue-tinted glasses on sunny days.
look over, peer over Her father lowered his paper and peered over his glasses at her.
adjust, push up She pushed her glasses up and rubbed the bridge of her nose.
steam up His glasses steamed up as soon as he came indoors.
be perched on sth, perch on sth Horn-rimmed glasses perched on the bridge of her nose. 
behind (your) ~ She blinked behind her glasses. Their anxious faces were hidden behind dark glasses. 
dully, faintly, softly The knife's blade gleamed dully in the dark. 
with The long oak table gleamed with polish. 
gleam golden, white, etc. The pebble beach gleamed white in the moonlight. 
occasional They caught occasional glimpses of great birds circling.
tantalizing This was my first tantalizing glimpse of the islands. 
catch, get, have, take Thousands of people had gathered, hoping to catch a glimpse of the Queen. We only had a fleeting glimpse of the sun all day.
at He took a quick glimpse at the map.
~ of We got just a brief glimpse of the car as it rushed by. 
rare This scene may give a rare glimpse of Charles's personal style as king. 
afford sb, allow sb, give sb, offer (sb), provide That smile afforded her a brief glimpse of the other side of Adam Burns. 
at The exhibition offers a fascinating glimpse at life beneath the waves.
~ into Take a glimpse into the future of rail travel.
~ of She got a glimpse of a very different way of life. 
angrily His eyes glinted angrily. 
with Her eyes glinted with amusement. 
circumnavigate, travel one of the first boats to circumnavigate the globe She travelled the globe in search of good writers of children's stories. 
across the ~ The railway network soon spread across the globe.
all over the ~ Motor vehicles are found all over the globe.
around/round the ~ Chess fans around the globe watched the match with breathless interest. 
all parts of the globe, every corner of the globe Athletes from every corner of the globe competed in the Games. 
become, get Now, don't start to get gloomy.
decidedly, very The future looked decidedly gloomy.
far from The committee's view was in fact far from gloomy.
about Her trainer was even more gloomy about the prospects for British tennis. 
clear, high Use a high gloss paint.
healthy, natural Your hair has lost its natural gloss. 
add We used a gel to add gloss to her hair.
cast, give sth, throw The lamplight gave a cosy glow to the room. The sunset threw an orange glow on the cliffs.
be bathed in The whole village was bathed in the glow of the setting sun. 
light sth Our faces were lit by the faint green glow of the dashboard lights. 
have Her cheeks had a healthy glow. 
bring a glow to sb's cheeks/face The wine had brought a warm glow to her cheeks. 
bask in, bathe in, feel She bathed in the warm glow of first love. 
of He felt a glow of pride as he watched them. 
pot, tube All you will need is a sharp knife and a pot of glue. 
apply, put on Put glue on both the surfaces.
sniff He took to drinking and sniffing glue. 
dry, set It takes about half an hour for the glue to set. 
smoothly, well Everything went very smoothly.
quickly, slowly The holiday went very quickly.
by The days seemed to go by very slowly. 
together Leeks and potatoes go well together in a soup. 
with That tie goes well with that shirt. PHRASAL VERBS go down 
with The novel went down well with the public. go on 
about He goes on endlessly about his health problems.
at Stop going on at me about that money.
with We'll go on with the presentations after lunch. 
go on and on The journey just seemed to go on and on. 
England, Liverpool, etc. The England goalkeeper played brilliantly.
for He now plays as goalkeeper for Liverpool. 
Christian, Greek, Roman, etc.
believe in, follow, have Do you believe in God? Muslims have only one God.
praise, pray to, thank, worship The people worshipped pagan gods. 
exist Can we prove that God exists? 
of the Roman god of war 
faith in God Nothing ever shook her faith in God.
the will of God He saw the accident as the will of God. 
steam up My swimming goggles keep steaming up so I can't see. 
be, gleam, look The abbey walls gleamed golden in the light of the setting sun.
turn The whole sky turned golden and red. 
common The results of the research should be used for the common good rather than for individual profit. 
do (sb) You can try talking to her, but I don't think it will do much good. It will do you good to get out of the house more often. 
for sb/sth's ~ When the prime minister's health problems continued, he resigned for the good of the party. 
a force for good In disadvantaged areas, schools can be a force for good.
for sb's (own) good I know you don't want to go into hospital, but it's for your own good.
a power of good That holiday has done me a power of good. 
durable, perishable A ‘use by’ date must be stamped on all perishable goods.
branded, own-label The supermarket's own-label goods are cheaper than branded goods
stolen He was accused of handling stolen goods.
deliver The goods will be delivered within ten days.
bring, preach, proclaim, spread, take She preached the Christian gospel to the poor and destitute.
hear Thousands came to hear the gospel. 
directly The colony was governed directly from Paris. 
be fit/unfit to He accused the opposition party of being unfit to govern. 
acting, interim She was appointed as acting governor until an election could be held.
parent She served as a parent governor at her children's school. 
family, local Who is your local GP? 
register with You should register with a GP as soon as possible. 
refer sb The GP referred her to a specialist. > Note at DOCTOR(for more verbs) 
with ~ Ann moved with easy grace. 
according to The timber is graded according to its thickness.
by The containers are graded by size.
from … to … Eggs are graded from small to extra large. 
recruit, trainee He joined the company as a graduate trainee.
employment, recruitment The company places great importance on graduate recruitment and training.
daub, draw, scrawl, scribble, spray, write Graffiti was scribbled all over the walls.
be covered with, be daubed with, be sprayed with The buildings were covered with racist graffiti. 
natural This wood has a beautiful natural grain. 
across/against the ~, along/with the ~ Cut the wood along the grain. 
correct, good Spelling and good grammar are both very important.
Arabic, French, Latin, etc. the complexities of English grammar 
correct, teach People were too polite to correct my grammar when I spoke German.
set I've sent photos of the children to both sets of grandparents. 
effectively The law effectively grants the company immunity from prosecution. 
refuse to The judge refused to grant him bail.
depict sth as/on, show sth as/in/on The statistics can be depicted as a graph.
plot sth on The figures are all plotted on a graph. 
show sth She drew a graph showing the relationship between costs and sales. 
in a/the ~ I decided to show the results in a bar graph.
on a/the ~ We can see on this graph how the company has grown over the last year. 
in graph form Results can be shown in numeric or graph form. 
firm, strong She felt a firm grasp on her hand. 
slip from As she jumped forward, the ball slipped from her grasp.
prise sth from, rip sth from, snatch sth from, wrench sth from, wrest sth from She wrenched the bottle from his grasp. 
beyond your ~ The key was on a high shelf, just beyond her grasp.
in your ~ He kept the letter firmly in his grasp.
from sb's ~ The robber tried to free the case from her grasp.
out of sb's ~ She kicked the gun out of his grasp.
within (your) ~ (often figurative) Just when victory seemed within grasp, the referee blew his whistle. 
intellectual The task was beyond the intellectual grasp of some of the students.
intuitive We have no intuitive grasp of the immensity of time. 
get Working with native speakers helped me get a good grasp of the language. 
beyond your ~ These ideas are all beyond his grasp.
blade I've walked along that path for so many years I know every blade of grass.
clump, tuft There were only a few clumps of coarse grass for the animals to eat. 
verge We parked on the grass verge by the side of the road. 
across the ~ They all set off across the grass.
in the ~ I found the wallet lying in the grass.
on the ~ You're not allowed to walk on the grass.
through the ~ The dog came running through the long grass. 
deeply, enormously, especially, extremely, genuinely, immensely, more than, most, particularly, profoundly, really, terribly, truly, very We are deeply grateful to you and your family. I am more than grateful for their generous response. Thank you for your help. I really am most grateful.
almost His father looked almost grateful for once.
just, simply I'm just grateful the injury is not as bad as we'd feared.
eternally I'm eternally grateful that we managed to go there before the war. 
for I'm really grateful for your help.
to I'm immensely grateful to you for your support. 
feel the very deep gratitude I felt towards her
earn (sb) His kindness and support earned him her eternal gratitude. 
in ~ He almost wept in gratitude when he saw the money.
with ~ I remember them with gratitude.
~ for, ~ to/towards I would like to express my deep sense of gratitude to the staff for their patience. 
as a token of your gratitude I sent him some money as a token of my gratitude.
owe a debt of gratitude to sb We owe her a deep debt of gratitude for her services.
be subject to All objects are subject to gravity.
defy The building leans so much that it seems to defy gravity. 
by ~ The water flows from the tank by gravity to the houses below. 
centre of gravity (often figurative) Europe's economic centre of gravity shifted northwards.
extreme I don't think you realize the extreme gravity of this offence. 
with ~ Criminal law does not treat traffic offences with the gravity they deserve. 
peacefully, quietly Sheep were grazing peacefully in the fields. 
allow sth to, turn sth out to The cattle were turned out to graze. 
badly She had grazed her elbow quite badly. 
on He fell and grazed his knees on a rock 
lightly Place the cakes on a lightly greased baking tray. 
true This book tells you nothing about the true greatness of his paintings. 
lie Her greatness lies in her deep understanding of human nature. 
New Testament
alphabet > Note at LANGUAGE 
call (out), nod, shout, smile, wave He jumped to his feet and called out a greeting. They said nothing, but nodded a polite greeting.
exchange The delegates shook hands and exchanged greetings.
acknowledge, respond to, return I said ‘Good morning!’, but she didn't return the greeting.
in ~ He held out his hand in greeting. 
birthday, Christmas, New Year, seasonal 
bring, extend, send (sb) He brought Christmas greetings from the whole family. We extend our greetings to you and thank you for listening to us. 
be armed with, carry, have The hijackers were armed with hand grenades.
hold She was holding the grenade above her head, ready to throw.
hurl, lob, throw, toss I tossed the grenade through the open door.
line, pattern, square, system The artist drew a set of grid lines over the area to be painted. 
line, reference, square The grid lines on the map run north-south. An Ordnance Survey grid reference gives the position of a place to within 100 metres. 
system Power can be fed from wind generators into the electricity grid system. 
genuine, legitimate, real Some people will complain even if they have no genuine grievance.
economic, social By the 1530s social grievances were again being voiced. 
harbour, have, nurse She still nursed her old grievance.
hear (formal), listen to MPs spend many hours listening to the real or imagined grievances of their constituents.
redress, remedy, settle Managers would make every effort to remedy individual grievances as they arose. 
about/over The meeting will be a chance to air your grievances about the organization.
~ against He had a personal grievance against the professor. 
hot Cook under a hot grill for 7 minutes.
preheat Preheat the grill to medium. 
under a/the ~ Place the chops in the grill pan, and put it under the grill. 
on a/the ~ Once the charcoal is glowing, place the food on the grill, turning it regularly. 
at He grimaced slightly at the pain. She grimaced at him.
in She grimaced in disgust. 
boyish, cheeky, impish, mischievous, sly Edmund looked up with an impish grin.
crack, force, give (sb) He gave the photographer a big grin.
break into, split into The old man's face broke into a grin.
hide, restrain, stifle She tried to stifle a grin. 
appear, spread across/over sth A mischievous grin spread across the little girl's face.
disappear, fade His wry grin faded. 
with a ~ ‘Fooled you!’ he said, with a cheeky grin.
take/wipe the grin off your face Take that grin off your face!
wipe the grin off sb's face I'll soon wipe that silly grin off her face. 
finely The cement need not be finely ground.
down, up Grind the seeds down to a powder. 
to The coffee is ground to a fine powder. 
at She gripped hard at the arms of her chair.
by He gripped her gently by the shoulders. 
loud He let out a loud groan of frustration.
with a ~ He stood up slowly with a groan of pain.
~ of > Note at SOUND 
be, look She is always perfectly groomed. 
for She groped blindly for the door handle. 
grope your way I groped my way across the pitch-black stage. 
firmly His book is firmly grounded in memories of his own childhood. 
completely, entirely, quite, totally, utterly Our fears proved totally groundless.
big, large, wide She has a very wide group of friends.
select, small The president met with a select group of senior ministers.
coherent, cohesive, tight, tightly-knit The strangers who came together for the course soon became a cohesive group.
minority Disabled drivers are an ever-growing minority group.
family The animals live in family groups of 10?20 individuals.
age, peer young people in this age group He started smoking because of peer-group pressure.
action, pressure Local parents have formed an action group to campaign for better road safety.
splinter A few members of the party broke away to form a splinter group.
blood What blood group are you? 
divide sb/sth into We divided the class into small groups.
leave He left the group last year to pursue a solo career. 
form The group formed back in 1992.
split up The group has split up and re-formed several times with different musicians. 
as a ~ The gorillas go foraging for food as a group.
in a/the ~ There are fifteen of us in the group.
within a/the ~ Within a group, each individual had a definite status.
~ of a group of young mothers > Note at ORGANIZATION 
exponentially Well before a billionth of a second had elapsed the universe started to grow exponentially. 
by Profits are expected to grow by 10% next year.
from Her media empire grew from quite small beginnings.
in She continued to grow in confidence
into The village grew into a town. 
into The small puppy quickly grew into a very large dog. 
well Tomatoes grow best in direct sunlight.
outwards, upwards As the island subsided the reef grew upwards and outwards. 
allow sth to, let sth She decided to let her hair grow. 
from The tree grew from a small acorn.
into Small acorns grow into great oak trees. 
grow unchecked A rose in full bloom had been allowed to grow unchecked up one of the walls. 
angrily, savagely ‘I'm a desperate man,’ he growled savagely.
at The dog growled softly at me.
with Her stomach was growling with hunger. 
long-standing, old It's time to forget old grudges.
bear, harbour, have, hold, nurse I don't hold grudges for very long. 
against Do you know anyone who might harbour a grudge against you? 
non-committal He gave a non-committal grunt in reply. 
with a ~ He lifted the heavy box with a grunt.
~ of a grunt of pain > Note at SOUND 
carry, come with, have All our products come with a two-year guarantee.
under ~ The car is still under guarantee, so you should be able to get it repaired free of charge.
~ against The window frames carry a 20-year guarantee against rot or decay.
~ for The garage gives a year's guarantee for all repair work.
~ on The contractors offer a full money-back guarantee on all their work. 
constitutional, personal The country gives a constitutional guarantee of the rights of minorities. 
get We didn't get any firm guarantee of a loan. 
against There was no guarantee against misuse of the king's power.
~ for The demonstrators were demanding guarantees for fair elections.
~ of Driving into town early is no longer a guarantee of getting a parking space. 
armed, uniformed The building is protected by armed guards.
post Guards had been posted all around the radio station. 
patrol sth Guards patrolled the perimeter fence.
armed The accused was taken to court under armed guard.
keep, mount, stand Soldiers stood guard on the city gates. 
off your ~ The question seemed to catch him off his guard.
on (your) ~ Several police officers were on guard outside the factory. He was always on his guard against moneymaking schemes.
under ~ The prisoners were under close guard.
~ against, ~ over Two police officers kept guard over the burnt-out building. 
change The guard was changed every two hours.
call out It would only be a matter of minutes before the alarm was raised and the guard called out. 
guard of honour Fellow soldiers from Corporal Smith's regiment formed a guard of honour at his wedding. 
self-appointed She has become the self-appointed guardian of the nation's conscience.
act as The village people act as guardians of the land. 
appoint, appoint sb (as) The court appoints a legal guardian for the child.
fair, good, reasonable, safe April is the best guess for first deliveries.
calculated, educated, informed, inspired, intelligent As a vet, he could make an educated guess as to what was wrong with his stomach.
rough, wild At a rough guess, I'd say we're about twenty miles from home.
lucky ‘How did you know?’‘It was just a lucky guess.’ 
have, hazard, make, take If you don't know the answer, have a guess. If I might hazard a guess …
give sb ‘Where's Tom?’ ‘I'll give you three guesses!’ (= the answer is fairly obvious and you should guess it easily) 
at a ~ At a guess, I'd say there's a problem with the fuel pump.
~ about/as to/at He made a wild guess as to how much the piano might cost. 
informed, inspired Their results owe more to informed guesswork than to actual knowledge. 
be based on Their price estimates are based on pure guesswork. 
a matter of guesswork Long-term forecasts were largely a matter of guesswork. 
firm Parents need to provide their children with firm guidance.
helpful The handbook gives helpful guidance on writing articles.
general These notes are for general guidance only.
divine, expert, parental She prayed for divine guidance.
give (sb), offer (sb), provide (sb with) We can give guidance to students on which courses to choose.
ask for, look to sb for, seek Children look to their parents for guidance. I think you should seek guidance from your solicitor on this matter. 
under … ~, under the ~ of Volunteers are restoring the building under expert guidance.
~ about The Careers Officer also offers guidance about university courses.
~ as to Guidance must be given as to what tasks the learner should attempt.
~ on The Safety Officer provides guidance on firefighting and office safety. 
on Schools were firmly guided on the details of the curriculum 
carefully Their teacher Phil Bailey carefully guides them through rehearsals. 
in He guided me in my research.
through He guided us through the intricacies of the divorce law. 
gently He took her arm, gently guiding her. 
across, along, etc. She guided him across the busy road.
to/towards He guided her hand to his face. 
be consumed with, be haunted by, be overwhelmed with, be racked with, feel, suffer I knew that the next day I would be consumed with guilt. You needn't feel any guilt about me.
assuage Talking to her helped to assuage my guilt. 
sear sb, sweep over sb, wash over sb Guilt swept over her. 
about/at/over He had no feelings of guilt over what he had done. 
establish, prove It might be difficult to prove his guilt. 
lie There is no doubt as to where the guilt lies. 
an admission of guilt I took his silence as an admission of guilt.
act as Twenty students volunteered to act as guinea pigs.
for Dealers used their clients as guinea pigs for their untried techniques. 
ujarati noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
down She gulped down her coffee and left. 
nervously ‘Do you know where she is?’ asked Chris. The man gulped nervously and nodded. 
gulp for air/breath Keith swam to the surface and gulped for air. 
enemy They succeeded in silencing the enemy guns.
anti-aircraft, anti-tank, Bren, field, hand, harpoon, laser, machine, spear, Sten, stun, sub-machine
be armed with, carry, have Look out! He's got a gun!
load I loaded the gun with my last two bullets.
aim, hold, point, raise He raised his gun, aimed and fired.
man Enemy ship approaching! Man the guns!
blaze, fire, go off Guns were firing and grenades going off all around.
shoot sth This new gun shoots a laser beam at the target.
be mounted There were several guns mounted in the back of the vehicle. 
lobby the powerful gun lobby in the US
the barrel of a gun I found myself looking down the barrel of a gun.
guns and ammunition We're very short of guns and ammunition.
hold a gun on sb, hold a gun to sb's head Two armed men held a gun to his head and made him empty the safe.
turn a gun on yourself The gunman then turned the gun on himself and blew his brains out. 
hear We heard gunshots round about midnight. 
wound He died of gunshot wounds to the chest. 
blow/come in gusts The wind came in great gusts off the Pacific. 
completely The hotel was completely gutted by fire last year. 
do She does gymnastics at school. 
in (the) ~ > Special page at SPORT 
make sth, render sth They've done their best to make the house habitable.
consider sth The houses were not considered habitable. 
barely The room was barely habitable. 
away, off They hacked away at the dense vegetation. hacking off the dead branches 
at She hacked at the hedge with the shears. 
hack sth to bits/pieces The body had been hacked to pieces.
hack sb to death He was hacked to death by the mob.
hack your way The explorers had to hack their way through dense jungle. 
fall Hail fell shortly after lunch.
melt The hail melted once the sun came out. 
in (the) ~ We got caught in the hail.
get, have You ought to smarten up and have a haircut before the interview.
need He was unshaven, and badly needed a haircut. 
dark, darkened, unlit He hurried them along the narrow, dark hall. 
lead to The hall led to a locked door. 
along the ~, at/to the end of the ~, down the ~ There were strange noises coming from the room down the hall.
bare Our voices echoed round the huge bare hall.
main More than 200 members of the public packed the main hall at the community centre.
crowd into, fill, pack The strains of the national anthem filled the hall. 
in the ~, into the ~, through the ~ His voice echoed through the hall. 
hall of residence Most first-year students live in the halls of residence. 
abrupt, sudden The bus came to an abrupt halt outside the school.
grinding, shuddering The strike brought the capital city to a grinding halt.
come to, draw to, grind to, jolt to, lurch to, scream to, screech to, shudder to, skid to, slide to, slither to The economy seems to be grinding to a halt. The car skidded to a halt just inches from the river.
bring sth to Production was brought to a temporary halt when power supplies failed.
call Scientists have decided to call a halt to the tests.
~ to The protesters are calling for a halt to the export of live animals. 
in The shares have more than halved in value since the summer high of 572p.
to Overall operating profits halved to $24 million. 
swing He swung the hammer with all his strength. 
blow (often figurative) The decision is a hammer blow for the coal industry. 
a hammer and chisel, a hammer and nails, hammer and sickle the hammer and sickle of the Soviet flag 
badly, greatly, seriously, severely Rescue efforts were severely hampered by the bad weather.
personally She wanted to hand the petition to the prime minister personally.
just, merely, simply They would simply hand her over to the magistrate as a thief.
grudgingly, reluctantly He grudgingly handed me the money.
back, in, out, over She handed out the exam papers. 
to He handed the book to Sally. 
pair, set The policeman slipped a pair of handcuffs on his wrists. 
put on, slip on The other policeman put the handcuffs on him.
in ~ He was taken away in handcuffs. 
mental, physical, visual She can't drive because of her visual handicap. 
be born with, have, suffer (from) Over a million people in Great Britain suffer from mental handicap.
cope with, overcome She has managed to overcome her physical handicaps. 
despite a/the ~ Despite her handicap, Jane is able to hold down a full-time job. 
big, considerable, great, major, real, serious, severe, terrible Lack of transport was a major handicap. 
have, suffer If you don't speak the language, you've got a real handicap.
prove His lack of height can prove a handicap against tall players. 
~ to This could be a serious handicap to her education. 
blow your nose on, use He blew his nose on a grubby handkerchief.
carefully, with care A label on the crate read: ‘Handle with care’.
carelessly Garden tools can be hazardous if carelessly handled.
roughly Many of the prisoners were roughly handled; some were killed. 
competently, efficiently, properly, skilfully, successfully, well I think you handled that situation very well.
carefully, delicately This issue may need to be handled carefully.
easily Her next question was not so easily handled.
routinely The library routinely handles a wide variety of enquiries. 
be able/unable to, can/could, know how to This was a problem that I just couldn't handle. She knew how to handle publicity.
be designed to, be equipped to He wasn't mentally equipped to handle this situation.
be difficult to, be hard to Large meetings are notoriously less productive and more difficult to handle. 
with She handled the crisis with total assurance. 
get, receive All those eligible will receive a cash handout. 
in a/the ~ More information can be found in the handout.
~ on We were given a handout on job hunting. 
devastatingly, exceedingly, extraordinarily, extremely, incredibly, strikingly, very, wonderfully He was young and devastatingly handsome.
come in I advise you to buy one?it may come in handy one day. 
for The arrangement was handy for both of us. 
keep sth Always keep a cloth handy to wipe up any mess. 
for The house was near Drury Lane, very handy for the theatre. 
at ‘I'm pretty handy at giving out advice,’ claimed Mark.
with Lucy is quite handy with a drill! 
after She's always hankering after excitement.
for I still hankered for the farm life. 
actually, really She couldn't quite believe that all this was actually happening to her.
just I don't remember learning to swim, it just happened.
spontaneously Sometimes fun activities just happen spontaneously; at other times they take careful planning.
overnight Change doesn't happen overnight. 
be going to They could only wait and see what was going to happen.
be bound to Mistakes are bound to happen sometimes.
tend to What tends to happen is that students spend the first week of the course in a blind panic, but settle down by the second or third week.
make sth You have to make things happen if you want them to happen.
let sth Don't just sit back and let it happen. 
to She didn't know what was happening to her. 
appear, be, feel, look, seem, sound Outwardly the couple appeared happy. Andrew felt happier than he had been for a long time.
make sb Money won't make you happy.
keep sb He went home from time to time, to keep his mother happy. 
extremely, only too, particularly, really, very We'd be only too happy to accept your invitation.
completely, perfectly, quite Mum seemed perfectly happy with my explanation.
genuinely, truly For the first time in her life, she felt truly happy.
far from, not altogether, not at all, not entirely, not exactly, not particularly, not too, not totally Her boss was not entirely happy about the situation.
just I'm just happy to be back home.
about I'm not too happy about her attitude.
for So you're getting married, I hear. I'm really happy for you!
with I was quite happy with the way things went. 
extremely, gloriously, particularly, very, wonderfully It had been a gloriously happy time.
be subject to, be subjected to, suffer She had been subjected to continual sexual harassment. 
by They are complaining about harassment by the police 
a victim of harassment > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
be, feel, look, seem The chairs felt hard and uncomfortable.
become, go Don't leave the cake uncovered or the icing will go hard.
rock hard The toffee was rock hard. 
become, get Life got very hard.
make sth If you tell the children the answers, it only makes it harder for them to do the work on their own.
find sth I found the exam quite hard. 
bear, endure, experience, face, suffer, survive a close community which makes these hardships easier to bear Students may suffer severe financial hardship as a result of the government's decision. They have already survived considerable hardship. 
payment The union made hardship payments to some of the sacked workers. 
in ~ They are living in genuine hardship.
without ~ Rail services to rural areas could be withdrawn without undue hardship.
~ to The cold was no real hardship to me. 
times of hardship In times of economic hardship, firms cut back on training. 
considerable, great, serious, untold He was clearly intent on inflicting serious harm on someone.
cause, do, inflict The huge fall in exports has done a great deal of harm to the economy.
mean (sb), wish sb I'm sorry if I upset you?I didn't mean any harm. No one wishes you harm.
come to, suffer I don't think he'll come to any harm if his mother is with him.
keep sb from, prevent, protect sb from, shield sb from The children were removed from their parents to prevent harm to them. She tried to shield her child from harm. 
come to sb/sth I don't want any harm to come to these pictures. 
more harm than good The drugs he was prescribed did him more harm than good.
out of harm's way The younger children were kept out of harm's way. 
consider sth She actually considered fresh air harmful. 
extremely, particularly, positively, very These products are often positively harmful.
possibly, potentially A lot of these chemicals are potentially very harmful.
(not) necessarily Not all virus infections are necessarily harmful to vines.
environmentally, socially These pesticides are environmentally harmful. 
reasonable, relative They've lived together in reasonable harmony for many years.
domestic, political, racial, social On the surface, their life seemed a model of domestic harmony. 
maintain, preserve They try to maintain harmony between the two communities.
foster, promote The Church tries to promote racial harmony.
in ~ They work together in harmony.
~ between They try to foster harmony between different groups of people.
a sense of harmony A new sense of harmony developed in the community. 
for How can this energy be harnessed effectively for the good of humankind? 
always, constantly He is always harping on about the war.
keep harping on Don't keep harping on about my age! 
abundant, bumper, good, large, rich We've had a bumper harvest of apples this year. (figurative) She returned from the conference with a rich harvest of knowledge.
bring in, gather (in), get in, reap They were busy getting the harvest in. (figurative) We are now reaping the harvest of our hard work last year. 
fail The strawberry harvest failed because of the drought. 
after (the) ~ Potatoes are normally sprayed after harvest.
during (the) ~ During harvest they work from dawn to dusk.
blind, breathless, frantic, great She worked with frantic haste.
indecent, reckless, undue He accused the government of undue haste in bringing in the new law. 
make I had to make haste if I wasn't to be late. 
in (your) ~ They obviously left in great haste. In his haste to get home, he forgot to go to the library.
with ~ He married again with almost indecent haste.
without ~ They approached without haste. 
with all haste The ships were ordered to sea with all haste. 
closed, open Leave the hatch open.
inspection, service The engineer was peering into the service hatch.
serving She opened the serving hatch and put the soup on the counter.
lift, open, raise She lifted the hatch and slid it away from the opening.
batten down, close, shut They battened down the hatches and prepared for the storm. He ordered the hatches to be closed. 
through a/the ~ They got out through the escape hatch.
absolutely I absolutely hate cooking.
almost For a moment she almost hated him.
just Don't you just hate people who are always right?
always I always hated school.
begin to, come to, grow to He came to hate the town, with its narrow prejudices.
for He hated me for standing up to him. 
hate it when I hate it when you lose your temper like that. 
on When I shout, give a haul on the rope. 
long, short the long haul back to Cape Town a short-haul passenger plane
big, large, record The thieves got away with a record haul of £25 million.
get, get away with The gang did not expect to get such a large haul. 
reputedly, supposedly a Norman castle which is reputedly haunted 
come back to, return to He said he would come back to haunt her. (figurative) That decision came back to haunt him in later life. 
continue to These visions continued to haunt her for many years. 
among The new tax could wreak havoc among smaller companies.
~ for High winds have been creating havoc for farmers.
~ in The disease can cause havoc in commercial orchards.
~ on The flood wrought havoc on the countryside.
~ to The storm caused havoc to wildlife.
~ with The fog played havoc with flight schedules. 
cut, harvest, make The freshly harvested hay was taken into the big hay barn. They make hay to feed the cattle in winter. 
in the ~ The children were playing in the hay. 
for These conditions are very hazardous for shipping.
be, look The distant mountains looked hazy and mysterious.
a little, quite, rather, slightly Generally, it will be rather hazy today, with some hill fog. 
with The summers were hazy with pollution. 
extremely, very I have only a very hazy idea about how the economy works.
a bit, fairly, a little, rather, somewhat My memory of that day is somewhat hazy now. 
about I'm a bit hazy about my family history. 
north, northwards, etc. We headed west for two days.
back Let's head back home. 
back to We headed straight back to school.
for He turned and headed for the door.
towards heading towards London 
jointly The committee will be headed jointly by two men.
appoint sb to She has been appointed to head up the research team. 
broad, general Books on bridges should be listed under ‘bridges’ and not under a broader heading such as ‘engineering’.
letter With the computer, we can print our own letter headings. 
come under, fall under These drugs come under the heading of non-medical substances. 
under a/the ~ I've organized what I have to say about unemployment under three main headings. 
newspaper, tabloid ‘Carnage at Airport’, screamed the tabloid headline.
carry, have, run The Guardian carried the front-page headline ‘Drugs Firms Shamed’.
read, scan, see I just had time to scan the headlines before leaving for work.
be in, capture, dominate, grab, hit, hog, make ~s She's always in the headlines. He always manages to grab the headlines. The hospital hit the headlines when a number of suspicious deaths occurred. The story has been hogging the headlines for weeks. The story was important enough to make the headlines. 
proclaim sth, read sth, say sth, scream sth The Sunday Observer had a headline saying, ‘Pop Star Arrested on Drugs Charges’. 
news ‘Queen Mother goes on Holiday’ is hardly headline news! 
in a/the ~ The most unusual fact in the story is often used in the headline.
under a/the ~ The Daily Gazette ran a story under the headline ‘Pope's Last Words’.
with a/the ~ a story in the newspaper with the headline ‘Woman Gives Birth on Train’
~ about There was a banner headline about drugs in schools. 
make headline news The engagement of the two tennis stars made headline news. 
hear, listen to Let's just hear the news headlines.
completely, properly The wound hasn't healed properly yet.
up The wound healed up very nicely. 
bad, declining, delicate, failing, fragile, frail, ill, poor He had to retire due to ill health.
public The poisoned food has been removed from the shops and there is no threat to public health.
enjoy, have She's never really enjoyed good health.
look after, maintain You need to maintain your physical and mental health.
nurse sb back to She was nursed back to full health.
improve Her health gradually improved.
deteriorate, fail, worsen His health began to fail under the heavy pressures of the job. 
care How is primary health care best delivered?
professional, visitor, worker Your doctor, midwife or health visitor will advise.
warning The air quality was so bad that the government issued a health warning.
bad/good for your health Smoking is bad for your health.
(not) in the best of health, in good/poor health He felt in much better health.
sb's state of health He is unable to travel far because of his state of health. 
be piled in Papers were piled in great heaps on the desk.
collapse in, fall (down) in (both figurative) He collapsed in an exhausted heap on the floor. 
in a/the ~ His clothes lay in a crumpled heap on the floor.
on/onto a/the ~ Throw the potato peelings on the compost heap.
the bottom/top of the heap (figurative) These workers are at the bottom of the economic heap. 
have, possess Whales have acute hearing.
lose She lost her hearing when she was a child.
get back, regain Is there any chance that he'll get his hearing back?
deteriorate, get worse, go His hearing began to deteriorate. Her hearing was already going.
come back, get better, improve Two months after the accident her hearing came back. 
hard of hearing You'll have to speak more loudly. I'm afraid she's rather hard of hearing. 
conduct, hold Most councils hold hearings in public.
ask for, call for, demand Protesters are calling for a public hearing.
get, have She said that she had had a very fair hearing from the disciplinary tribunal.
tell The hearing was told that the child had been left with a 14-year-old babysitter. 
at a/the ~ At a preliminary hearing the judge announced that the trial would begin on March 21.
in a/the ~ She was granted a divorce in a five-minute hearing.
pending a/the ~ Pending the hearing of the case by the court, the business will be allowed to continue trading.
without a ~ A High Court judge dismissed the case without a hearing. 
give sb/sth At least give our ideas a fair hearing before you reject them.
get You haven't got much chance of your plan getting a sympathetic hearing.
deserve Their views deserve a hearing. 
for All I'm asking is a fair hearing for my ideas. 
massive, serious She died of a massive heart attack.
have, suffer He suffered a fatal heart attack while cycling.
die from/of > Special page at ILLNESS 
racing She was suddenly aware of her racing heartbeat. 
the sound/thud of a heartbeat I could feel the thud of my heartbeat. 
burning, fierce, great, intense, searing, terrible, tremendous The soil is baked dry by the fierce heat of the sun.
excess, excessive If circulation is impaired, the body cannot lose excess heat.
red, white (often figurative) Everything he did was at white heat and lightning speed.
feel We could feel the tremendous heat coming from the fire.
disperse, dissipate, give out, lose Even after the sun had set, the stones continued to give out heat.
conserve, retain The thick walls retain the heat.
absorb Darker surfaces absorb heat.
conduct Being a metal, aluminium readily conducts heat.
generate, produce, provide, radiate Computers, faxes and photocopiers all generate heat of their own.
withstand a material which can withstand heats of up to 2,000°C 
build up, increase He tried to ignore the heat building up in the confined space. 
exhaustion, stress, stroke (also heatstroke) She slumped to the ground, near to heat exhaustion. 
baking, blazing, blinding, blistering, boiling, extreme, great, intense, oppressive, scorching, searing, shimmering, stifling, suffocating, sweltering We walked more than ten miles in the blistering heat.
humid, steamy, sultry the steamy heat of New York in summer
grow Daily the heat grew. 
haze A heat haze shimmered above the fields. 
in the ~ I can't work in this heat. 
the heat of the day To avoid the heat of the day we went out in the mornings. 
direct Chocolate should never be melted over direct heat.
turn up Towards the end of the cooking, turn up the heat to brown the outside.
remove sth from, take sth off Bring to the boil slowly, then remove from the heat.
return sth to Return the pan to the heat and stir. 
off the ~ Make sure the pan is off the heat.
on a ~ Cook on a low heat for five minutes.
over a ~ Simmer the sauce over a gentle heat. 
sudden He stared at her, sudden heat in his eyes. 
flare, flood sth, rise Heat flooded her cheeks. 
with ~ ‘It was your hare-brained idea,’ Henry said with heat.
without ~ She spoke without heat. 
in the heat of the moment Michael bitterly regretted those angry words, spoken in the heat of the moment. 
dead Competition was fierce, with a dead heat in one of the races (= with two competitors finishing in exactly the same time). 
win She won her heat. 
in a/the ~ He fell in the first heat. 
have The flat has gas-fired central heating.
have on, keep on, leave on, run, use We haven't had the heating on this evening.
put on, switch on, turn on They are afraid to put the heating on because it's so expensive.
switch off, turn off They have their heating turned off during the morning.
fit, install, put in We're having central heating installed. 
be (full) on, be on high/low The heating was on but the window was open. The heating's on low.
go off Our heating goes off at eleven o'clock and comes on again at seven.
work The heating doesn't work.
break down The house was very cold because the heating had broken down. 
system What sort of heating system has your new flat got? 
ascend to, go to I feel like I've died and gone to heaven. 
from ~ Our child seemed a gift from heaven.
in ~ (figurative) It was a marriage made in heaven. 
absolute, sheer It was sheer heaven being alone at last. 
in ~ The kids were in absolute heaven at the fair. 
a heaven on earth The island is truly a heaven on earth.
sb's idea of heaven Building up a tan by the pool with a good book is my idea of heaven. 
scripture > Note at LANGUAGE 
lean back on, sit back on, squat on She took a potato from the fire and sat back on her heels.
rock (back) on The punch rocked him back on his heels. He rocked back and forth on his heels as he laughed.
pivot on, spin on, turn on He turned on his heel and marched away angrily.
click (together) The officer clicked his heels together and saluted.
catch She caught her heel and tripped.
at your ~s She came up the path with two little dogs at her heels.
under the ~ (figurative) For years the nation had been under the heel of a dictatorial regime. 
close/hard/hot) on your heels (figurative) They reached the border with the police hot on their heels. 
bar I took my shoes to a heel bar to have them repaired. 
greatly This latest attack has greatly heightened fears of an all-out war.
serve to Seeing others enjoying themselves only served to heighten his sense of loneliness.
be passed down, come down The brooch is a family heirloom which came down to her from her great-grandmother. 
go to He was terrified of going to hell when he died. 
the fires/flames of hell Lava poured out of the volcano, glowing like the fires of hell. 
absolute, pure, sheer It was sheer hell having to sit through hours of boring lectures!
living The last few weeks have been a living hell for the refugees. 
go through She's been going through hell with that bad tooth.
give sb, make sb's life Her boss is making her life hell. 
in ~ ‘We're living in hell,’ said one of the refugees. 
the … from hell It really was the holiday from hell?it rained all the time, we all got colds, and we missed the plane home.
hell on earth For someone who doesn't like heat, Florida would be hell on earth. 
big, enormous, great, invaluable, real, substantial, tremendous, valuable You've been a big help?thanks. It's a great help having you around. This is the first scheme to offer real help to working mothers.
direct The careers officer gives direct help as well as advice.
mutual, self- The system is based on mutual help rather than on payment for services. a best-selling author of self-help books
voluntary The homeless centre relies entirely on voluntary help.
individual Teachers have little time to give individual help to students.
outside They can usually manage by themselves, but occasionally need outside help.
financial, legal, medical, practical, professional When the symptoms persisted, I decided to seek medical help. 
appeal for, ask for, beg for, call for, scream for, seek, send for, shout for, summon Police are appealing for help in catching the killers. I opened the window and called for help.
bring, enlist, fetch, find, get He enlisted the help of a private detective in his search for the truth. He ran to get help.
need, want Do you need any help unloading the car?
accept He's too proud to accept help.
come to, give sb, offer (sb), provide (sb with) Passers-by came to the woman's help when she was mugged. 
arrive, come He lay injured for four hours before help arrived.
be at hand (informal) Don't panic?help is at hand. 
desk, line (also helpline) For further information, phone our helpline. 
beyond ~ Some of the injured animals were beyond help and had to be destroyed.
of ~ The manual is too technical to be of help to the inexperienced user.
with ~ With a little help, I think I could fix the computer myself. We broke open the lock with the help of a spanner.
~ for The training centre provides special help for the long-term unemployed.
~ from With help from a parent, a child can do simple cooking.
~ in Local teachers provided invaluable help in developing the material.
~ to She's been a big help to her father.
~ with He'll need help with this homework. 
an appeal/a plea/a request for help The family's request for help went unanswered.
a cry for help I heard a cry for help from inside the building.
in need of help The man was clearly in need of urgent medical help.
an offer of help He rudely rejected her kind offer of help. 
band He recruited a band of willing helpers. 
of I had an extra helping of meat. 
a feeling/sense of helplessness A feeling of utter helplessness washed over him. 
hepatitis A/B/C > Special page at ILLNESS 
beef, breeding, dairy The farm has only a small dairy herd.
in a/the ~ The animals tend to graze in a herd.
follow If you feel so strongly, why follow the herd (= do the same as everybody else)?
stand out from She prided herself on standing out from the common herd (= being different from ordinary people). 
operation, repair > Special page at ILLNESS 
suitably He struck a suitably heroic pose. 
great Violetta is one of the great tragic heroines of Verdi's operas.
unsung She remains one of the unsung heroines of the Second World War.
childhood She was thrilled to be interviewing her childhood heroine.
eponymous Jane Eyre, the eponymous heroine of the novel by Charlotte Bronte
fillet > Special page at FOOD 
brief, fractional, momentary, slight There was a momentary hesitation before he replied.
initial After some initial hesitation, teachers seem to have accepted the new system. 
after … ~ After much hesitation, they decided to leave.
without ~ She answered immediately, without any hesitation. 
have no hesitation in doing sth I have no hesitation in recommending him for the job.
a moment's hesitation, a moment of hesitation After a moment's hesitation, he nodded. 
give, let out She gave a loud hiccup. 
attack He suddenly had an attack of the hiccups. 
get, suffer from I ate too quickly and got hiccups. 
in This one defeat was the only hiccup in the team's steady progress up the League. 
away She hid the documents away in a drawer. 
prefer to, want to She wanted to run away and hide. (figurative) He accused the prime minister of preferring to hide from the truth. 
behind (figurative) He hid behind a false identity.
beneath He had a weak mouth which he hid beneath a moustache and beard.
under He hid the book under his bed. 
carefully/completely/well hidden The letters were well hidden in the back of the cupboard.
half hidden The buildings were half hidden by the trees.
hidden from sight/view The house was hidden from view by a large hedge.
partially/partly hidden The house was partially hidden behind some trees.
a place to hide (sth) I'll find a better place to hide it. 
be able/unable to She was unable to hide her delight at his failure.
make no attempt to He made no attempt to hide his anger
from The government tried to hide the evidence from the public. 
remain/stay hidden The truth may well remain hidden for ever. 
be The company's structure is rigidly hierarchical.
hit, reach Share prices reached an all-time high yesterday. 
give sb The drug gives you a tremendous high. 
on a ~ She's been on a real high since she got her exam results. This show is our swansong?we want to finish on a high. 
clearly These figures clearly highlight the difference in world living standards.
dramatically, graphically The needs of these children were dramatically highlighted by the Child Poverty Action Group.
merely, only, simply The peace talks merely highlighted the great gulf in understanding between the two sides. 
serve to The incident has sadly only served to highlight the differences within the party. 
go on The boys have gone on a long hike with the Boy Scouts. 
on a ~ They met on a hike.
~ from, ~ to It's a hell of a hike from Sydney to Perth. 
grassy, green, wooded On our left was a wooded hillside.
terraced I was back in wine country, with terraced hillsides on both sides of the road.
be set on Many of the chalets are set on a hillside reached by steps. 
down a/the ~ A stream tumbles down the steep hillside.
on a/the ~ The house was on a hillside outside the town.
up a/the ~ We clambered up the hillside to the ridge above.
be, prove Having a car in the city might prove a hindrance. 
without ~ (formal) The cook needs room to get at the cooker, sink and cupboards without hindrance.
~ to The new regulations are actually a great hindrance to teachers. 
induism noun > Note at RELIGION 
strongly He hinted strongly that he would be resigning soon.
darkly She hinted darkly that all was not well.
at The problems are only hinted at in the report. 
car Our hire car broke down after only an hour.
for ~ There are boats for hire on the lake.
on ~ (from/to) The equipment is on hire from a local company.
~ of The main expense was the hire of a car. 
faint, soft, low There was a low hiss on the tape.
give, let out The snake gave a hiss.
with a ~ She drew in her breath with a hiss.
~ of We could hear the faint hiss of escaping gas. 
boos and hisses, a hiss of air, the hiss of a snake > Note at SOUND 
serious No serious historian today accepts this theory.
official the official historian of the Labour Party
contemporary, early, future The oldest tradition goes back to the contemporary historian John Foxe. What will future historians make of the late twentieth century?
ancient, medieval, modern She is a writer as well as a distinguished modern historian.
revisionist Revisionist historians have questioned the accepted version of events. 
give sth, make, score Give it a good hit At last he managed to score a hit.
receive, suffer, take One of the tanks took a direct hit. 
list She was at the top of the terrorists' hit list (= the list of people they intended to kill) for over two years. Which services are on the government's hit list?
man, squad He claimed that a hit man had been paid £20,000 to kill him. 
big, greatest, huge, massive, real, smash The show has been a smash hit.
box-office, chart The band are here to promote their latest chart hit. 
parade (old-fashioned) The single was number one in the British hit parade 
with The series has been a big hit with children. 
last-minute There are always a few last-minute hitches at the dress rehearsal.
legal, technical There was a slight technical hitch which delayed the plane's take-off. 
without a ~ Everything went without a hitch.
~ in There's been a hitch in the plans. 
big, large, major, vast one of the biggest hoards of Roman coins ever found
in ~s Gold coins have been found in hoards in many parts of the country.
elaborate It turned out to be an elaborate hoax.
cruel He described the deception as a cruel hoax.
perpetrate, play, stage a hoax perpetrated by the British government 
on The organizers staged a hoax on some of the competitors. 
play She plays hockey in the winter. 
club, squad, team the Olympic hockey squad
league, tournament > Special page at SPORT 
licence, passport, ticket Only ticket holders will be allowed into the ground.
account, credit card, policy Account holders with the bank qualify for a discount on loans.
job, office, post She wondered why the previous job holder had left. 
jagged, ragged The missile had torn a jagged hole in the side of the ship.
bullet The wall was full of bullet holes.
bore, break, cut, dig, drill, make, punch, tear, wear We dug a deep hole to bury the animals in. She punched two holes in each sheet of paper. He had worn a hole in the knees of his trousers.
fill (in), plug I uprooted the tree and filled the hole with earth. We used cement to plug the holes. 
down a/the ~ The snake disappeared down a hole.
in a/the ~ There was water in the hole.
through a/the ~ We climbed through the hole.
~ in I used a skewer to make an extra hole in my belt. 
full of holes The old blankets were now full of holes.
riddled with holes The car was riddled with bullet holes. 
in a/the ~ Snow lay in dark hollows.
beloved They were devastated that they had to leave their beloved homeland.
adopted He wants his children to grow up in his adopted homeland.
Jewish, Palestinian 
flee, leave During the war, they were forced to flee their homeland.
go back to, return to, visit He longs to return to his homeland. 
in a/sb's ~ They hope to remain in their homeland. 
make sb Seeing other families together made him terribly homesick. 
justifiable The jury returned a verdict of justifiable homicide. > Note at CRIME(for verbs) 
come out as He came out as a homosexual after his mother died. 
absolute, complete, scrupulous, total I always expect total honesty from my employees.
brutal, painful, ruthless ‘Don't you believe me?’ ‘I don't know, ’ she said with painful honesty.
intellectual You need ruthless intellectual honesty about your own skills, weaknesses and motives. 
have She had the honesty to admit her mother was right.
in ~ (= honestly) Who in honesty can blame her?
with ~ She answered the questions with complete honesty.
~ about I appreciate your honesty about this. 
honesty and integrity He has the honesty and integrity to be chairman.
in all honesty (= used to say sth which, though true, may seem disappointing) In all honesty, the book was not as good as I expected. 
brief, short We had a brief honeymoon in Paris.
second After so many years of marriage, we're planning a second honeymoon. 
go on, have, leave for, spend They go on honeymoon the day after the wedding. 
be over (usually figurative) The honeymoon was over and the reality of what she had taken on began to dawn. 
period (figurative) There was always a honeymoon period when Mum started a new job. 
for a ~ They can't decide where to go for their honeymoon.
on ~ While on honeymoon in Bali, she learned to scuba dive. 
completely, entirely, perfectly My intentions were perfectly honourable. 
pull back, pull off, pull up, put up He walked into the room and pulled off his hood. She put up her hood when it started to rain. 
with the hood down/up He was wearing a blue anorak with the hood up. > Special page at CLOTHES 
considerable, fervent, great a feeling of considerable hope It is my fervent hope that you will be able to take this project forward.
high (only used with hopes) Hopes are high that a resolution to the conflict can be found.
best, main Privatization seems to offer the best hope for the industry.
faint, frail, slight, vague There was still a faint hope that they would accept the offer.
real, sincere without any real hope of success It is my sincere hope that she will find happiness at last.
false, forlorn, vain He wasn't trying to give her false hope. It seemed a forlorn hope that we would find a taxi.
early His early hopes of freedom were now gone.
last, only He had one last hope to cling to.
sudden Her dark eyes lit with sudden hope.
lingering, remaining These figures kill off any lingering hopes of an early economic recovery.
flicker, glimmer, ray, spark I looked at her and felt a glimmer of hope. 
be full of, cherish, entertain, have, see Lord Mountbatten secretly cherished hopes that Charles would marry his granddaughter. Political leaders do now entertain the hope that a settlement can be found. She saw little hope of meeting the targets.
express, voice The Mexican president expressed hope for cooperation on trade.
pin He pinned all his hopes on getting that job.
cling to, keep alive, live in keeping alive the hope that a peace settlement might be found I haven't yet found a flat, but I live in hope.
not hold out I don't hold out much hope of finding a buyer.
abandon, give up, lose I didn't give up hope of being released.
arouse, bring sb, give sb, offer (sb), raise The use of fish oil to treat cancer has brought fresh hope to millions of sufferers. This announcement has raised hopes that the crisis may be coming to an end.
boost The latest job figures have boosted hopes for the economy.
dash, destroy, kill (off), shatter, wreck Her hopes of going to university have now been dashed. 
lie, rest Her only hope lay in escape. Their main hopes rest on their new striker.
grow, rise Hopes of a peaceful end to the strike are now growing.
flare (up), spring (up), surge Hope flared up inside her.
disappear, fade Hope faded after wrecked remains of the ship were washed onto the shore. 
in ~ of, in the ~ that I am 
every/little/no/some hope of sth We have every hope of completing the project this year. There is little hope that they will be found alive.
grounds/reason for hope We now have good grounds for hope.
(not) a hope in hell You haven't got a hope in hell of finding a job.
high ~s They have high hopes for their children.
distant Peace is a distant hope in this war-torn region.
championship, medal, Olympic, etc. the team's championship hopes 
your hopes and dreams/expectations/fears She told me all her hopes and dreams. 
last, only He turned to her in despair and said, ‘You're my last hope.’
for She is Britain's brightest hope for a medal.
~ of The operation was Kelly's only hope of survival. 
be, feel, seem, sound I feel quite hopeful that a peaceful solution will be found.
become, get Don't get too hopeful. We may not be able to go.
remain The police remained hopeful that she would be found alive. 
eternally Only Janet, eternally hopeful, thought it was worth trying again. 
about She was not very hopeful about her situation.
of The police are quite hopeful of catching the thieves. 
be, look, seem Things aren't looking very hopeful at the moment. 
fairly, quite There are some fairly hopeful signs of recovery in the US market. 
distant, far The sea stretched away to the distant horizon. 
scan The captain scanned the horizon for any sign of other vessels. 
above the ~ I watched the pale sun climb over the horizon.
below the ~ The sun was sinking rapidly below the western horizon.
beyond the ~ Land was still out of sight beyond the horizon.
on the ~ A cloud of dust on the horizon announced the arrival of the cavalry.
over the ~ The moon was rising over the horizon. 
cultural, intellectual, musical My first trip to the theatre broadened my cultural horizons. 
broaden, expand, open up, widen It is hoped that the course will open up new horizons for students.
limit, narrow, restrict Their horizons were limited to events within the village community. 
stretch His horizons didn't stretch beyond his next night out. 
beyond your ~ They had become aware of possibilities beyond their own limited horizons. 
blow, honk, sound, toot Passing motorists honked their horns. 
beep, blare, hoot, sound Another horn blared behind me. 
blast Impatient horn blasts began to sound behind him. 
on a/the ~ He gave a furious blast on his horn. 
section > Special page at MUSIC 
bloody (taboo), really That was a really horrible thing to say!
to My sister has always been horrible to me. 
abject, absolute, utter The thought of working nights fills me with abject horror.
mock She raised her hands in mock horror when she saw my new haircut. 
feel, have She felt horror and pity at seeing Marcus so ill. She had a horror of pubs.
fill sb with The possibility of meeting him again filled me with horror.
recoil in Anna recoiled in horror as the snake approached. 
film, story They were trying to scare each other with horror stories about going to the dentist. 
in ~ They watched in horror as the aircraft crashed to the ground.
to your ~ To his horror, he saw a dead body lying beside the road.
with ~ He realized with absolute horror that he no longer had the money.
~ of I'm trying to overcome my horror of insects. 
full He never experienced the full horrors of trench warfare.
ultimate I used to regard public speaking as the ultimate horror. 
commit, inflict, perpetrate He had witnessed horrors committed by the enemy.
NHS, private
go into/to He's had to go into hospital rather suddenly.
come out of, leave She came out of hospital this morning.
at a/the ~ She works at the John Radcliffe Hospital.
in (a/the) ~ He is in hospital recovering from a heart operation. I used to work as a cleaner in a hospital.
to (a/the) ~ He's been taken to hospital for tests. We went to the hospital to visit my gran. 
charming, generous, genial, good, perfect, welcoming George was a perfect host. 
act as, play The village is playing host to a film crew. 
club, community, country, family, government, nation, society, state The host club is to be congratulated on its organization of the tournament. 
to The acre of garden is host to a splendid bank of rhododendrons. 
chat-show, game-show, talk-show, television, TV The event will be opened by television host Bill Punter. 
hold (sb) Eight people were held hostage for four months.
seize, take (sb) The gunmen took 24 hostages.
make sb The experience has made him generally hostile towards women.
consider sth, construe sth as, deem sth, perceive sth as, regard sth as, see sth as They were reluctant to take any step that might be regarded as hostile. 
bitterly, decidedly, deeply, downright, distinctly, extremely, fiercely, markedly, positively, uncompromisingly, unremittingly, very He was deeply hostile to the idea of psychotherapy. The audience gave him a downright hostile reception.
uniformly The press became uniformly hostile to the new administration.
to Many people were openly hostile to the idea.
towards He was extremely hostile towards her. 
become, get, grow The sun shone fiercely down and it grew hotter and hotter. 
baking, blazing, bloody (taboo), boiling, exceedingly, exceptionally, extremely, incredibly, insufferably, intensely, oppressively, really, scorching, stiflingly, swelteringly, unbearably, uncomfortably, unusually, very a boiling hot summer's day It was unbearably hot in the car.
a bit, fairly, pretty, quite, rather This weather's a bit hot for me. 
be, feel, look Don't you feel hot so close to the fire?
get, grew They had been going steadily up for half an hour and she was beginning to get uncomfortably hot. His face grew hot at the memory of his embarrassment. 
boiling, burning, extremely, really, uncomfortably, very I was boiling hot and sweaty. His forehead was burning hot.
a bit, fairly, moderately, quite, rather, slightly Wash the tablecloth in fairly hot soapy water. Bake in a moderately hot oven.
enough, sufficiently The ground was hot enough to fry an egg on. 
keep, stay The food should stay hot until we're ready to eat.
keep sth The containers keep the food hot for five hours.
eat sth, serve sth Serve hot or cold accompanied by bread and a salad. 
extremely, really, very I love really hot food.
a bit, pretty, quite, slightly That was a pretty hot curry! 
call, dial, phone, ring Dial our 24-hour hotline to find out if you have won a prize.
establish, set up A telephone hotline has been set up to give information about the changed train services.
operate, run The company will be operating an information hotline that customers can call if they are worried about products. 
solid I slept for eight solid hours. 
take It takes two hours to get to London.
last The performance lasted three hours.
gain, lose You gain five hours when you fly from New York to London. 
go by, pass An hour passed and she still hadn't arrived. 
by the ~ They're paid by the hour.
for an ~ She worked for three hours.
in/within an ~ I should be back within a couple of hours.
over/under an ~ He's been gone for over an hour.
per ~ Top speed is 120 miles per hour.
within the ~ We hope to be there within the hour (= in less than an hour).
~ of There are still two hours of daylight left. 
half an hour, hour after hour, an hour's time, with every passing hour She grew more worried with every passing hour. > Note at MEASURE
chime, strike The clock struck the hour. 
on the ~ Buses leave every hour on the hour.
spend I spent my lunch hour shopping. 
licensing, visiting Britain's licensing hours (= when pubs are allowed to open) the hospital's visiting hours
work She works very long hours.
keep He keeps regular hours. 
after ~ He spends a lot of time in his office after hours.
out of ~ Doctors often have to work out of hours. 
darkest, finest This was often thought of as the country's finest hour.
antisocial, unearthly, ungodly, unsocial I apologize for phoning you at this ungodly hour. 
come The hour had come for us to leave. 
between the ~s of The office is closed between the hours of twelve and two.
your hour of need She helped me in my hour of need. 
adequately At no time in the 19th century were the working classes adequately housed.
badly, inadequately The losers in this society are the old, the sick, the jobless, the homeless and badly housed.
temporarily The fish can be temporarily housed in a smaller aquarium. 
careful, good, prudent The company has made considerable savings through good housekeeping, such as avoiding wastage.
bad, poor My financial problems were made worse by my bad housekeeping. 
allowance, money Her husband spent the housekeeping money on gambling. 
affordable, cheap, good, low-cost The aim of the scheme was to provide good low-cost housing for workers.
bad, inadequate, poor, substandard Many health problems are made worse by poor housing.
council, local authority, public, social Public expenditure on social housing provision has doubled in the last five years.
development, estate, scheme Many new housing developments had sprung up around the city.
allowance, benefit She receives a substantial housing allowance on top of her salary. I received housing benefit when I was unemployed. 
in … ~ Too many families are still living in substandard housing. 
mournful The dog gave a mournful howl. 
with a ~ With a howl he leapt at his foe.
be greeted/met with howls of sth His comments were met with howls of outrage.
the howl of the wind/a wolf, howls of laughter, howls of outrage/protest/rage > Note at SOUND 
be, lie, sit, stand Phil sat huddled miserably in his chair.
find sb She found him huddled in a corner, shaking violently. 
against Karen was huddled against the wall.
beneath/under She lay huddled under the blankets.
in He slept, huddled in an armchair. 
give sb He gave the children a quick hug, then got into the car. 
become, grow Her eyes grew huge. 
really This is a really huge amount of money.
absolutely, simply Their house is absolutely huge!
potentially There's a potentially huge demand for this product. 
begin to He began to hum, somewhat tunelessly. 
hum to yourself She was humming softly to herself. 
common Guilt and a sense of common humanity make people less harsh. 
publicly Lowe was publicly humiliated by his colleagues. 
in front of I had been assaulted and deeply humiliated in front of all my friends. 
feel humiliated I have never felt so humiliated in all my life. 
final, ultimate He was forced to face the ultimate humiliation the next morning.
be subjected to, endure, face, suffer She suffered the humiliation of having her house searched.
wry With wry humour, they laugh at their misfortunes.
schoolboy His colleagues soon got fed up with his schoolboy humour.
touch Her speech was serious, but not without the occasional touch of humour. 
be full of, contain The stories are full of humour.
appreciate, see The man who lost his shoes failed to see the humour of the situation. 
good Her good humour was restored by the excellent meal. 
in (a) good humour The remarks were made in good humour. He was obviously in a good humour this evening. 
extreme Any good weight loss regime should not lead to extreme hunger.
feel It is usual to feel hunger during exercise.
die from/of Thousands of people have died of hunger.
alleviate, relieve, satisfy looking for ways to alleviate world hunger Perhaps the cat was killing to satisfy hunger. 
pangs The new snack bar will keep those hunger pangs at bay.
strike About 60 prisoners have gone on hunger strike. 
land Peasant land hunger grew ever more acute as the population swelled. 
for She has an insatiable hunger for knowledge. 
take part in She had never taken part in a fox hunt before. 
follower, supporter Hunt followers deny the sport is cruel.
massive, nationwide Police launched a nationwide hunt for the woman, amid fears for her safety.
murder Police forces in five counties are now involved in the murder hunt.
witch (often figurative) The investigation turned into a full-scale Communist witch hunt. 
begin, launch A massive police hunt was launched for the missing child.
lead Detectives leading the hunt for the killer believe he may be in hiding.
step up The mountain rescue team is stepping up its hunt for the missing climbers.
call off The hunt for survivors has now been called off. 
begin, be on The hunt is on for potential employees with experience of electronic publishing. 
clear, jump (over) She cleared the first few hurdles easily.
fall at, hit His horse fell at the final hurdle. 
final, first, last, next The first big hurdle in putting your car on the road is getting insurance. 
face This is perhaps the most difficult hurdle that we face.
clear, jump, overcome, pass We'll jump each hurdle as we come to it. You have already overcome the first major hurdle by passing the entrance exam.
fall at The plan fell at the first hurdle. 
big, desperate, great, tearing, terrible I was late for the match and in a tearing hurry. 
in a ~ They were in a hurry to set off.
in no ~ She's in no hurry to find out how much her phone bill comes to.
in your ~ In his hurry to leave, he forgot his briefcase. 
feel the deep hurt that he felt when Jane left him
cause She knew that she had caused her husband a lot of hurt. 
find sth I found some of his comments rather hurtful. 
deeply, very She made some very hurtful remarks.
to What he said was deeply hurtful to me. 
descend, fall A sudden hush fell over the room as the head teacher entered.
follow sth A deathly hush followed the explosion. 
dental, food, oral, personal, public Many skin diseases can be prevented by good personal hygiene. 
live up to The movie failed to live up to all the hype.
about I don't believe all the hype about how good the French team will be this season. 
bold Scientists have proposed a bold hypothesis.
working These observations appear to support our working hypothesis.
construct, form, formulate, have, make, propose, put forward, suggest It is possible to make a hypothesis on the basis of this graph. A number of hypotheses have been put forward.
reject None of the hypotheses can be rejected at this stage. 
concern sth Her hypothesis concerns the role of electromagnetic radiation.
predict sth The hypothesis predicts that children will perform better on task A than on task B. 
on a/the ~ Her study is based on the hypothesis that language simplification is possible.
~ on The results confirmed his hypothesis on the use of modal verbs. 
media, tabloid Unnecessary anxiety has been caused by media hysteria and misinformation.
fit She smashed the place up in a fit of hysteria.
border on Sam arrived in a state of excitement bordering on hysteria.
bring on, engender, generate That thought was enough to bring on near hysteria. 
mount, rise She felt hysteria rising.
die down, diminish Eventually the hysteria died down.
~ over hysteria over Aids 
on the brink/point/verge of hysteria She was babbling, on the verge of hysteria. 
and/with ice-cream apple pie with ice cream > Special page at FOOD 
roll out Roll out the icing into a large square.
cover sth with, pipe, smooth, spread, squeeze Pipe a little green icing around the strawberries.
trim off Trim off excess icing around the base.
colour Colour the remaining icing red. 
big The latest big idea is to make women more interested in sport.
alternative Group counselling is used as an alternative idea to punishment.
ambitious, big, grand He joined the company as an office assistant with big ideas.
basic The basic idea is that we all meet up in London. 
have Do you have any ideas for a present for Lara?
draw, get Her ideas are drawn mainly from Chinese art.
promote, push (forward), sell They managed to push the idea of moving office through the committee.
welcome Most employees welcome the idea of a ban on smoking.
consider, entertain, flirt with, toy with I'm toying with the idea of packing in my job.
mull over, turn over He kept turning the idea of resigning over in his mind.
encourage, generate Brainstorming is a good way of generating ideas.
bounce around, bounce off sb, brainstorm, discuss, explore, talk about I met up with a designer to bounce a few ideas around. It's useful to have someone to bounce ideas off.
give sb What gave you the idea to go freelance?
apply, implement, put into action/effect/practice The idea had long been mooted but nothing had been done to put it into practice.
transform, translate How could we translate the idea into business reality?
steal She accused the company of stealing her idea.
impose She always tries to impose her own ideas on the rest of the team. 
come into sb's head/mind, come to sb, flash across/into sb's mind/brain, hit sb, occur to sb, pop into sb's head, strike sb The idea for the invention came to him in the bath.
emerge, evolve, form, grow An idea began to form in his mind.
flow His ideas flowed faster than he could express them.
come from sb/sth, date back from/to sth, originate, start, stem from sth The idea for the Olympics originated with Pierre de Coubertin.
blossom, work (out) The idea has now blossomed into a successful mail-order business.
lead The idea eventually led to the invention of the telephone.
about I have an idea about how to tackle the problem.
~ for We were asked to suggest ideas for improving efficiency.
~ of She had the idea of advertising on the Internet. 
be open to ideas I don't know what to do, but I'm open to ideas.
the germ/glimmering of an idea The germ of his idea came from watching a bird make a nest.
have other ideas I wanted to take the week off, but my boss had other ideas.
it might be an idea It might be an idea to leave a note on the door for Mark. 
basic, rough, vague He gave me a rough idea of what was wanted.
key, main The book introduces the key ideas of sociology.
definite, firm, strong She has very definite ideas about what kind of a job she wants.
erroneous, false, wrong I don't want anyone getting the wrong idea about me.
romantic People have a romantic idea of the police force.
not the faintest/foggiest/remotest/slightest (informal) I haven't got the faintest idea what she meant.
get They seem to have got the idea that we will be giving them a lift. You'll soon get the idea (= understand).
espouse, have, hold He holds very different ideas to mine about discipline.
communicate, convey, get across, get over, present, put across The book puts across complex ideas in a way anyone can understand.
clarify, formalize, formulate, organize, structure Give careful thought to how to structure your ideas in the essay.
change, reconsider, reshape, revise They had to reconsider their ideas in the light of new evidence.
harbour I hope he's not still harbouring ideas about asking me out.
be obsessed with He's obsessed with the idea of getting a motorbike.
relish I don't relish the idea of sharing an office with Tony. 
amuse sb, appeal to sb, please sb The idea of going to his rescue amused her.
catch on, take hold Some students started wearing denim, and the idea caught on. 
about She's got some funny ideas about how to motivate staff.
~ of Swimming in an icy river is not my idea of fun. 
high, lofty, noble Sam was a real leader who had high moral ideals.
unattainable This is not an unattainable ideal.
be committed to, be devoted to, believe in, cling to, espouse, have, support They still clung to the old ideals.
achieve, attain, be true to, conform to, live up to A journalist should always live up to the ideals of truth, decency, and justice.
fall short of This agreement falls far short of the ideal.
abandon, betray She was accused of betraying her political ideals.
make She was unable to make a positive identification of the suspect. 
parade A witness picked him out of an identity parade as the robber. 
carry, have Always carry some identification. Do you have any identification?
ask for, check The police checked their identification. 
code, number The vehicle's identification number is stamped on the engine. 
a means of identification My only means of identification was my cheque book. 
assumed, false He was discovered living under an assumed identity in South America.
mistaken This is obviously a case of mistaken identity.
create, develop, establish, forge They are still struggling to establish their identity as a political party. The company forged its own identity by producing specialist vehicles.
give sb/sth He felt that having a job gave him an identity.
maintain, preserve Many minority groups are struggling to maintain their cultural identity.
change He changed his identity and moved abroad on his release from prison.
assume She was given a false passport and assumed a new identity.
disclose, reveal He refused to reveal the identity of his client.
guess It was easy to guess the identity of the thief.
conceal, hide, keep secret, protect Her voice was disguised to conceal her identity. 
parade The victim picked out her attacker in an identity parade.
crisis The country suffered from an identity crisis for years after the civil war. 
as Scotland has never lost its identity as a separate nation. 
proof of identity The police officer asked him for proof of identity.
a search for identity His search for his cultural identity took him to where his parents were born.
blithering, complete, gibbering, prize, right, silly, stupid What stupid idiot left their shoes on the stairs? 
be, feel (like), look like I felt a right idiot, standing there in front of all those people! 
make an idiot of yourself He's made a complete idiot of himself over this woman! 
teen, teenage By this time Pitt had become a teenage idol. 
make (sb) Teenagers made Dean their idol. The film made an idol of her. 
switch on, turn on She got into the car and switched on the ignition.
key He turned the ignition key. 
in the ~ I must have left my key in the ignition. 
remain The general public remained totally ignorant of the danger.
keep sb We were kept ignorant of the facts. 
completely, entirely, pig (informal), quite, totally, utterly, very, wholly Don't ask Paul. He's pig ignorant.
blissfully We went to bed that night blissfully ignorant of the storm to come.
about He was completely ignorant about the country's political system.
of We are still woefully ignorant of the causes of this disease. 
make sb I can't eat bananas. They make me ill. 
critically, dangerously, desperately, extremely, gravely, really, seriously, severely, terribly, very His mother is seriously ill in hospital.
almost Robyn was almost ill with excitement and outrage.
violently She was taken violently ill and had to be put to bed.
absolutely, completely, entirely, quite, wholly It is quite illegitimate to argue that the government had no choice. 
functionally People judged to be functionally illiterate lack the basic reading and writing skills required in everyday life.
economically, politically Is it surprising that young people who are politically illiterate do not bother to vote? 
strictly Although strictly illogical, Martin's interpretation of this paradox seems the best. 
dimly, faintly, softly The room was dimly illuminated by the soft glow of his bedside lamp.
help (to) The study of the present also helps to illuminate the past. 
provide The skylight will provide good illumination from above. 
come from sth Most of the illumination came from candles. 
a source of illumination The only source of illumination was a single small window. 
with The new edition is heavily illustrated with photographs of aircraft. 
admirably, aptly, neatly, nicely, well The dire consequences of chronic underfunding are nowhere better illustrated than in the nation's schools.
merely, simply His question merely illustrates his ignorance of the subject.
brutally, starkly, tragically The case tragically illustrates the dangers of fireworks. 
serve to Two examples serve to illustrate this point.
tarnished The party needs to clean up its somewhat tarnished image.
clean-cut, girl-next-door, wholesome She was aiming for a wholesome, girl-next-door image.
media, public, screen In real life she looks nothing like her screen image.
brand, corporate Champagne houses owe their success to brand image. 
create The company needs to create a new image for itself.
keep up, live up to The group has failed to live up to its macho image.
discard, shed The industry is trying to shed its negative image.
sudden She had a sudden mental image of herself in a wedding dress.
conjure up, summon up Dieting always seems to conjure up images of endless cottage cheese salads. the ability to summon up images in the mind
build up I like to build up images of the characters and setting before I start to write.
reinforce Treating disabled people like children only reinforces negative images of disability. 
living, spitting He's the spitting image of his father!
mirror Charity was a mirror image of her twin. (figurative) The return journey was almost a mirror image of the outward one (= the same things happened in the reverse order). 
visual The visual image is steadily replacing the written word.
screen Each illustration is displayed as a complete screen image.
graven (literary) It was forbidden to worship graven (= carved) images.
capture, scan She longed to capture the image on film.
store You can store these images in a separate computer file.
juxtapose The display juxtaposed images from serious and popular art. 
database > Special page at COMPUTER 
barely, hardly, scarcely To such poor people, the idea of having a choice of food is barely imaginable. 
the best/worst … imaginable They live in the worst conditions imaginable.
every imaginable sth They had every imaginable colour. They had every colour imaginable.
the most … imaginable It was the most boring film imaginable! 
fevered, overactive, overheated It's just a product of your fevered imagination!
visual I was no good at art?I have a very poor visual imagination.
historical, literary It requires a strong effort of historical imagination to understand the Roman attitude to death.
lack Today's pop music lacks imagination.
require, take It does not take great imagination to guess what happened next.
use I haven't got a picture of this so you'll just have to use your imagination.
capture, captivate, catch, excite, fire, inspire, seize, stimulate, stir Victorian writers fired the popular imagination with their tales of adventure.
grip, hold Dinosaurs caught and have held the imagination of us all because they seem like dragons.
defy The scale of the disaster defied imagination (= was greater than you could imagine).
leave sth to As for their reaction, I'll leave that to your imagination! 
conjure sth up His imagination conjured up a vision of the normal family life he had never had.
in the/your ~ Nobody hates you?it's all in your imagination!
with/without ~ He was totally without imagination. 
a lack of imagination, a figment/product of sb's imagination The figure vanished as silently as if it had simply been a figment of her imagination.
not by any/by no stretch of the imagination Not by any stretch of the imagination could she be called beautiful (= she was definitely not beautiful in any way).
only your imagination Is it only my imagination or have you lost weight?
with a little imagination With a little imagination you can create a delicious meal from yesterday's leftovers. 
clearly, easily, readily I could clearly imagine the scene in the office.
hardly, scarcely I could hardly imagine living in such a remote and desolate spot.
just She could just imagine her mother's look of horror.
actually I can't actually imagine her falling for that trick.
always I always imagined him following in his father's footsteps.
fondly, naively I had fondly imagined that riding a mule would be easy. 
can/could (well) I can well imagine the atmosphere at home at this moment.
can/could not (possibly) There's more at stake here than you can possibly imagine.
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to It is difficult to imagine Blackpool without its famous Tower.
let us imagine Let us imagine what really might have happened. 
really, seriously You don't seriously imagine I'll agree to that?
almost I could almost imagine you were jealous.
be imagining things Had I really heard a noise, or was I just imagining things?
real or imagined He was always keen to avenge insults, real or imagined. 
cheap, crude, pale, poor Accept no cheap imitations of our product! Their version of jazz funk is a pale imitation of the real thing. 
direct Children are seen as learning to write by direct imitation of adult models. 
in ~ of The poems, some in imitation of Ossian, are graceful if unremarkable. 
do, give, perform He does a very good imitation of George W. Bush. 
completely, entirely, quite, wholly The condition of the car is quite immaterial as long as it works.
to These facts are immaterial to the problem. 
a lack of immediacy, a loss of immediacy Television allows viewers to experience an event without any loss of immediacy. 
in The seeds need to be completely immersed in water. 
deeply Clare and Phil were deeply immersed in conversation.
in For six months I totally immersed myself in my work. 
control, restrict laws restricting immigration into the US 
from There was a sudden increase in immigration from Eastern Europe. 
go/pass through We landed at Heathrow and went through customs and immigration. 
condemn sth as, consider sth, regard sth as, think sth He condemned the government's action as immoral. 
rather, slightly, vaguely That sounds vaguely immoral. 
personal Some religions include a doctrine of personal immortality. 
confer, give sb It was in the power of the gods to confer immortality upon mortals. 
the immortality of the soul They believe in the immortality of the soul. 
have The island's inhabitants had no immunity to the diseases carried by the explorers and quickly succumbed.
acquire, build up, develop Once you have had a cold you build up immunity to that particular virus.
lower High levels of stress may lower your immunity to common illnesses. 
develop A strong immunity to reinfection develops after one year. 
against/to The newcomers lacked immunity against local strains of the disease. 
diplomatic, legal, parliamentary Several ministers were stripped of parliamentary immunity as a prelude to facing corruption charges.
public interest The newspaper claimed public interest immunity when threatened with prosecution for publishing the story (= claimed that the public had a right to know about the story). 
abolish, lift, strip sb of The Supreme Court lifted the company's immunity from criminal prosecution.
from Unions were granted immunity from prosecution for non-violent acts. 
full The industrial north of the country felt the full impact of the recession.
maximum We'll show you how to dress for maximum impact at the all-important audition.
direct The railways made a direct physical impact on the landscape.
far-reaching, wider It is important to appreciate the wider impact and implications of this proposal.
human The severest human impact on the dolphins has been the loss of habitat.
personal The personal impact of party leaders has been very important.
cultural, ecological, economic, emotional, environmental, financial, health, political, psychological, social The environmental impact of power generation is being assessed. 
achieve, create, exert, have, make Variations in the interest rate will have an impact on the whole housing market. You certainly made a big impact on Carter.
feel The initial impact of the reforms will be felt most keenly in primary schools.
analyse, assess, consider, evaluate, examine, explore, judge, measure, monitor, study It is difficult to judge the likely impact of the changes on employment patterns.
alleviate, cushion, lessen, minimize, reduce, soften We are trying to minimize the impact of price rises on our customers.
diminish, lessen, reduce, weaken Listening to the speech through an interpreter lessened its impact somewhat.
lose When peace returned, the hardline message lost much of its impact.
resist, withstand This section explores how mothers resist the impact of poverty on the health of their children.
reflect Architecturally, these churches reflected the impact of the Renaissance. 
under the ~ of Manufacturing fell sharply under the impact of the recession.
take The front coach of the train took the full impact of the crash.
absorb A well-designed sports shoe should absorb the impact on the 28 bones in each foot.
lessen, soften Air bags are designed to soften the impact for crash victims.
survive, withstand The crew of six may have survived the initial impact, but the whole plane went up in flames seconds later. 
occur Impact occurred seconds after the pilot signalled for help.
knock sb/sth … The impact knocked him off balance. 
crater Small meteorites have left impact craters all over the planet's surface. 
on ~ The front of the car had crumpled on impact. 
remain The judge must remain impartial. 
think sth The river's broad mudflats were thought completely impassable. 
completely, totally The mud made the roads impassable.
almost Her expression was cool, almost impassive.
usually A smile transformed her usually impassive face. 
become, get, grow The children were growing impatient. 
a bit, a little, rather, slightly, somewhat, a touch He spoke in a somewhat impatient tone.
about She's getting impatient about the delays.
at Sean was a touch impatient at the time Valerie devoted to her mother.
with Sometimes he is very impatient with his wife. 
lawful, legal There are no legal impediments to their appealing against the decision. 
remove The agreement is designed to remove impediments to trade between the two countries. 
to Their boycott of the talks constitutes a serious impediment to peace negotiations. 
remain It remains imperative that all sides should be involved in the talks.
make sth The collapse of the wall made it imperative to keep the water out by some other means.
consider sth We consider it absolutely imperative to start work immediately. 
remain Our understanding of cancer remains imperfect. 
highly, very The system is highly imperfect.
rather, slightly These goods are slightly imperfect. 
merican, British, Roman, Western, etc.
gross I consider his remark a gross impertinence. 
have She had the impertinence to suggest I needed a holiday. 
completely, quite, totally, wholly He was completely impervious to criticism.
to She was impervious to his charms. 
sharp Make sure that all sharp implements, such as scythes, have covers.
detailed Detailed implementation of the plans was left to the regional offices.
smooth We will consult widely to ensure smooth implementation.
practical The practical implementation of the regulations proved difficult.
achieve, ensure, secure To achieve implementation of the programme is a long, slow task.
monitor, oversee, supervise The UN is to supervise the implementation of the peace treaty.
process The restructuring will take place in phases, to simplify the implementation process.
full Now they realized the full implications of the new system.
practical These results have important practical implications.
carry, have The emphasis on testing leads to greater stress among students and carries implications of failure.
assess, consider, examine, explore, ponder, study You need to consider the legal implications before you publish anything.
arise Several interesting implications arise from these developments.
be involved Given the resource implications involved, the plan will have to be scaled down. 
~ for The research has far-reaching implications for medicine as a whole. 
clear, obvious The implication is clear: young females do better if they mate with a new male.
possible His remark seemed to have various possible implications.
digest Brian paused for a moment while he digested the implications of this statement.
resent I resent the implication that I don't care about my father. 
by ~ In refusing to believe our story, he is saying by implication that we are lying. 
annual The value of annual imports rose rapidly.
net the UK's net imports of food
ban, prohibit The government decided to prohibit the import of toxic waste.
finance Most of their oil revenues are used to finance imports of consumer and capital goods.
replace The industry aims both to increase exports and replace imports. 
be valued at sth, total sth Imports were valued at £516 million last month.
account for sth Imports of foodstuffs accounted for a small proportion of total imports. 
quota A restricted import quota was set for meat products.
from America has cut its oil imports from the Middle East by 73%.
~ into Special duties were imposed on imports into the republic. 
a ban/restriction on imports, the demand for imports, a fall/rise in imports > Note at PERCENT (for more verbs) 
first, greatest, highest, utmost This information is of the first importance. It is of the utmost importance that you arrive on time.
symbolic the symbolic importance of iron in German culture
have These finds have considerable archaeological importance.
assume, take on Childcare schemes take on an added importance at a time of national recession.
decline in, diminish in, fall in The overseas markets have now declined in importance.
attach, give sth, place To what objectives do you attach most importance? the importance placed on cleanliness
accept, acknowledge, appreciate, be aware of, grasp, realize, recognize, see, understand People were aware of the importance of working with nature.
demonstrate, illustrate, indicate, point to, reflect, show, suggest Figure 2.2 shows the relative importance of the different service industries.
draw attention to, emphasize, highlight, point up, promote, stress, underline The manual stresses the importance of regular maintenance.
diminish, downplay, minimize, play down, underplay She was inclined to play down the importance of her own role in the affair.
underestimate, undervalue Don't underestimate the importance of neat presentation.
cast/throw doubt on, doubt, question No one can seriously question the political importance of the environment.
arise from sth, lie in sth The town's importance lies in the richness and quality of its architecture.
of … ~ The railways were of crucial importance in opening up the American West.
in order of importance Deal with the issues in order of importance.
effectively The terms of the contract were effectively imposed rather than agreed.
simply New technology cannot be used successfully if it is simply imposed on an unwilling workforce.
artificially Motivation to learn must come from the child; it cannot be artificially imposed. 
on/upon The government has imposed a ban on the sale of handguns. 
make sth, render sth Darkness made it impossible to continue.
believe sth, consider sth, deem sth, find sth, regard sth as, see sth as, think sth I found his offer impossible to resist. 
frankly Cooking for forty would be frankly impossible without my new assistant.
just, simply I'm really sorry. It's just impossible.
almost, more or less, near, nearly, next to, nigh on, practically, virtually, well-nigh It was well-nigh impossible for him to convince her that he was right.
equally Both options are equally impossible.
hitherto, previously With the new equipment we will be able to accomplish hitherto impossible tasks.
economically, financially, logically, logistically, mathematically, politically, physically, scientifically, socially, technically The high cost of childcare made returning to work economically impossible. 
for The situation is quite impossible for us. It's impossible for me to say. 
find sb I find her impossible. 
absolutely, completely, quite, totally You can be absolutely impossible at times!
leave sb, make sb, render sb Companies are rendered impotent by all the rules and regulations. 
against They were virtually impotent against the power of the large companies. 
leave sb, make sb The operation left him impotent. 
be, prove Such a solution proved impractical.
make sth The weight of the machine makes lifting it impractical.
consider sth, deem sth, find sth, regard sth as They found his ideas impractical. 
highly, hopelessly The long flowing dress was highly impractical.
hopelessly He was hopelessly impractical when it came to planning new projects. 
really His work really impressed me. 
fail to The results failed to impress us. 
with She impressed us with both the depth and range of her knowledge. 
an attempt/effort to impress sb, be easily impressed I was young and easily impressed. 
good The village gives a good impression of what a medieval city would have looked like.
early, first, immediate, initial First impressions can be misleading.
general, widespread There is a widespread impression that schooling needs to be improved.
form, gain, get, have, obtain, receive I got the distinct impression that you disliked her.
convey, create, give (sb), leave sb with, provide (sb wtih) The book leaves you with a distorted impression of politics.
maintain She was trying to maintain the impression that she was in control.
avoid It was difficult to avoid the impression that he was assisting them for selfish reasons.
correct I must correct a false impression that I gave you just now.
record She recorded her impressions of the city in her diary. 
count When it comes to finding a partner, first impressions do count. 
under a/the ~ I was under the impression that you weren't coming until tomorrow.
~ about I had the wrong impression about him.
right If you want to create the right impression, I suggest you wear a suit.
first, immediate The new striker failed to make an immediate impression on the team. 
on/upon The day's events left a lasting impression on them. 
issue The police have issued an artist's impression of the attacker. 
do He does some very good impressions of pop stars. 
bear The sealing wax bore the impression of a sailing ship. 
make sth The fact that he is so young makes his achievements even more impressive.
decidedly, enormously, extremely, highly, hugely, immensely, mightily, most, particularly, really, tremendously, truly, very The new building looks most impressive.
far from, hardly, not unduly He was far from impressive in his semi-final against Federer.
suitably A large portico provides a suitably impressive entrance to the chapel.
equally, similarly The scenery to the north of the lake is equally impressive.
technically, visually The film is technically impressive, but lacks real excitement. 
virtually Her fear virtually imprisoned her in her home.
for He was imprisoned for debt.
in He was imprisoned in a local castle. 
make sth These new facts make the theory improbable. 
inherently, intrinsically There is nothing inherently improbable in the idea. 
commit Several employees were suspended amid allegations that financial improprieties had been committed.
accuse sb of Parliament was was accused of constitutional impropriety. 
a suggestion of impropriety There is no suggestion of impropriety by the minister. 
suggested If suggested improvements are not carried out, we have the right to suspend the insurance cover.
underlying Their policies have resulted in a definite underlying improvement in the economy.
ground, home, housing, rail, road, school The club will spend £300,000 on ground improvements. 
be, constitute, reflect, represent The country's economic record since 1945 represents an improvement on the period between the world wars.
show Exports have showed some improvement.
carry out, effect, make He made a steady improvement and was released within 10 days of admission.
lead to, produce, provide, result in, yield The drug produced an improvement in all but one case.
announce, report Wholesalers reported an improvement in sales for the third quarter.
notice, see, witness With this exercise plan you will notice an enormous improvement in your stamina.
find No improvement was found after the tenth day of treatment. 
programme, scheme The proposed road improvement scheme involves bypassing several villages.
work The improvement work to houses will create jobs. 
in The new factory brought a huge improvement in working conditions.
~ on/over/upon These results are a distinct improvement on last year's.
~ to Several improvements were made to the design during its production run. 
an area for/of improvement The new assessment system could pinpoint areas for improvement within the company.
room/scope for improvement Their average marks have risen, but there is still room for improvement.
signs of improvement The economy is showing signs of improvement. 
hastily We hastily improvised a screen out of an old blanket. 
have to There isn't much equipment. We're going to have to improvise. 
be/feel frustrated by She felt increasingly frustrated by her inability to demonstrate her ideas.
overcome He has to overcome his inability to assert himself. 
be fraught with, be full of Reference works on that country, when available, are full of inaccuracies.
correct I am writing to correct factual inaccuracies contained in your article of June 3rd. 
totally He had been totally inactive for two weeks.
demonstrate, expose, highlight, point out/to, reveal, show (up) She rightly points to the inadequacy of the argument. The test soon revealed several inadequacies in the equipment.
realize, recognize, see I now see the inadequacy of the explanation.
admit to His advice was to be defensive and never admit to any inadequacy.
cover up, disguise, hide They possibly falsified the results to cover up the inadequacies of their theory.
overcome Clear legislative reform is needed to overcome the inadequacies of the current situation. 
make sth Her condition made surgery inadvisable.
highly It was thought highly inadvisable for young women to go there alone. 
to He was dismissed for inattention to his duty. 
a moment of inattention One moment of inattention when driving could be fatal. 
formally, officially The assembly was formally inaugurated on December 13. 
make sb, render sb The wine had made him incapable of thinking clearly.
constitutionally, temperamentally She was constitutionally incapable of bad temper.
physically He was apparently physically incapable of lowering his voice.
mentally This type of arrangement remains valid even if you become mentally incapable. 
of Computers are incapable of creative thought. 
current, latest, modern, new, present (figurative) In its new incarnation, the car has a more rounded body shape.
as her previous incarnation as a Norse explorer 
direct The most direct financial incentive to prevent rubbish is to charge people by the amount of rubbish they put out.
act as, be He argues that the free supply of skilled labour will act as an incentive for employees to be more diligent.
have She had the added incentive of being within reach of the world record.
create The government has created tax incentives to encourage investment.
undermine High taxation rates have undermined work incentives.
programme, scheme, system The company operates a share incentive scheme for its workers.
have every incentive The absence of penalties for anti-competitive behaviour means that firms have every incentive to engage in price-fixing.
a lack of incentive Low levels of profitability mean there is a lack of incentive to undertake new investment. 
further After nearly falling twice, she managed to make it to the top of the cliff without further incident.
whole He came to regret the whole incident.
actual, real/real-life The story is based on an actual incident.
unrelated, separate The police said that two men had been arrested after the match in unrelated incidents.
isolated It is feared that the attack may not have been an isolated incident.
border Talks between the neighbouring countries were called off following a border incident.
diplomatic An error in the translation nearly caused a diplomatic incident.
off-the-ball (sport) She received a serious jaw injury in an off-the-ball incident. 
be responsible for The group is believed to have been responsible for several terrorist incidents.
be involved in The hot-headed tennis star became involved in an incident with the umpire.
deal with, handle The incident was extremely well handled.
recall, remember He recalled a similar incident 14 months earlier.
describe, recount She described the incident as outrageous. They all laughed as he recounted the amusing incident.
report The pedestrian who had nearly been run over reported the incident to the police.
pass (off) without, proceed without, take place without The demonstration passed without incident. 
cause sth, lead to sth, spark sth (off) The incident sparked off a riot which lasted three days. 
room An incident room was set up at a police station near the site of the crash. 
following an/the ~ He was asked to leave the club following an incident at a training camp.
in an/the ~ Three soldiers were wounded in the incident.
make The surgeon made a small incision in the patient's cornea. 
slight I did not feel the slightest inclination to hurry.
natural, own, personal The king's own inclination was always towards a pro-French policy.
curb Hopes of advancement in the company may curb any inclination to deviate from the requirements of superiors.
follow In matters of dress she followed her personal inclinations rather than fashion. 
by ~ He is a teacher by occupation but a philosopher by inclination.
~ towards She has no inclination towards mysticism. 
the time nor/or the inclination I have neither the time nor the inclination to play stupid games! 
be, feel, seem I only write when I feel inclined to. There's time for a swim if you feel so inclined. 
rather I'm rather inclined to wait a few days before deciding.
towards Advertising aims to make people aware of a product and favourably inclined towards it. 
a bit, half, a little, rather, slightly I'm half inclined to believe you. She's rather inclined to become impatient.
criminally, liberally, mystically, romantically, suicidally The club was a notorious hang-out for the criminally inclined. 
that way inclined (informal) What's that? The ‘Model Railway Journal’? I didn't know you were that way inclined (= interested in model railways). 
of The charge is inclusive of food. 
all inclusive The price is all inclusive. 
demonstrate The disastrous merger demonstrated the incompatibility of the two companies. 
between Incompatibility between systems has been a major problem for video users.
~ with Critics of the new machine point to its incompatibility with other products on the market. 
grounds of incompatibility A divorce was sought and granted on grounds of incompatibility. 
display He displayed his incompetence by turning in a report that was full of errors.
tolerate I will not tolerate your incompetence any longer!
~ on the part of Several officers had alleged incompetence on the part of the general. 
remain Her collection remained incomplete.
leave sth The building was left incomplete. 
seriously, very, woefully Any view of Shostakovich is seriously incomplete without knowledge of these recordings.
inevitably, necessarily We begin with a brief and necessarily incomplete review of UK statistics.
find sth She found the idea quite inconceivable. 
to The thought of leaving her family was inconceivable to her. 
a little, rather, somewhat I found the scene somewhat incongruous. 
internally, logically Her argument is internally inconsistent.
mutually The two accounts are mutually inconsistent. 
in The company is inconsistent in the way it disciplines staff.
with His statement was inconsistent with other accounts of the events. 
public The rail strike is likely to cause considerable public inconvenience.
avoid I chose a different route to avoid the inconvenience of going through the town centre.
cause (sb), put sb to I don't want to put you to any inconvenience.
minimize, save (sb) You could have fetched me from the airport and saved me the inconvenience of having to take the bus!
apologize for, regret This shop is closed today for staff training. We regret any inconvenience caused. 
to Every effort will be made to minimize inconvenience to customers while work is in progress. 
with a minimum of inconvenience The club management will try to ensure that the building work is carried out with the minimum of inconvenience to guests. 
extremely, highly, most, terribly, very She called at a most inconvenient time.
politically Further environmental legislation could be politically inconvenient for the government. 
for Would this afternoon be inconvenient for you?
to This is a time of the evening that is inconvenient to many viewers. 
simply That statement is simply incorrect.
twofold, threefold, etc. Sales increased almost fourfold in this period. 
be expected to, be likely to Demand is expected to increase over the next decade. 
by The budget has increased by more than a third in the last year.
to Last month the reward was increased from £20,000 to £40,000.
with Disability increases with age. 
to I am deeply indebted to all the doctors and nurses who treated me. 
heavily, highly, severely The company is heavily indebted. highly indebted countries 
grossly, positively That skirt of hers is positively indecent. 
positively The rush to get hold of their father's money seemed positively indecent.
almost She started a new relationship with almost indecent haste. 
relative The council's relative independence of the government means it can negotiate its own agreements.
de facto Aquitaine's de facto independence from the king of France
have Young people have more independence these days.
enjoy, value I value my independence too much to get married.
display, show She displayed independence of judgement in choosing a career quite different from that of her parents.
assert Edward III tried to assert his independence of the regime at court.
achieve, gain, win Mexico achieved independence from Spain in 1821.
ensure, maintain, preserve, retain, sustain The army is committed to ensuring the independence of the country.
give up, lose She doesn't want to lose her hard-won independence.
encourage, promote Parents should encourage independence in their children.
undermine Economic aid tends to undermine the national independence of third world countries.
recognize They have agreed to recognize the breakaway republic's independence. 
come Independence came to the British colonial territories in Africa in the late fifties and early sixties. 
at ~ Namibia became a full member of the UN at independence.
~ from independence from Spain
a declaration of independence, a lack of independence, the loss of independence, a sign/symbol of independence The car became a symbol of independence.
the struggle for independence, a war of independence the American War of Independence 
almost, virtually Their shells are so hard they are virtually indestructible.
not necessarily Expense does not necessarily indicate worth. 
appear to, seem to These facts would seem to indicate that the family was wealthy.
be used to Symbols are used to indicate the facilities available at each hotel. 
to These figures indicate to me that the company is in serious trouble. 
consider sth, interpret sth as, regard sth as, see sth as, take sth as The rise in unemployment is seen as indicative of a new economic recession. 
(not) necessarily Recurrent dreams are not necessarily indicative of psychological problems. 
damning, scathing, terrible Her speech was a scathing indictment of the government's record on crime.
issue, bring A New York jury brought criminal indictments against the founder of the organization.
in a/the ~ Two men were named in the indictment.
~ against They issued an indictment against them.
~ for She was convicted on an indictment for conspiracy. 
appear, be, feel, seem, sound He appeared indifferent to her suffering.
almost Pat sounded almost indifferent.
about Most staff were indiffferent about the plans.
to He was coldly indifferent to other people. 
very We enjoyed the day, in spite of very indifferent weather.
good, bad and indifferent The festival has the usual mix of films?good, bad and indifferent. 
give sb Rich food always gives me indigestion. 
tablet > Special page at ILLNESS 
considerable, great, high His response was one of high indignation.
be filled with, be full of, feel They were full of righteous indignation at the thought of being cheated.
blush/burn/flush with, quiver/shudder/tremble with His plump face flushed with indignation. Bertha's voice quivered with indignation.
grow, rise Indignation grew as more nightclubs opened. She could feel her indignation rising. 
in ~ She turned to him in indignation.
with ~ He refused it with some indignation.
~ about/at/over The government expressed its indignation over the way the incident had been handled.
make sb/sth He had soon made himself indispensable.
for Written sources are considered virtually indispensable for today's history teaching.
in These drugs are almost indispensable in the fight against the disease.
have Each song has its own individuality.
give sth The small items of hand-crafted furniture give individuality to the room.
recognize This book will help you recognize your individuality.
a feeling/sense of individuality, the suppression of individuality Becoming part of a team should not mean the suppression of individuality. 
in She was free to indulge in a little romantic daydreaming.
with For a special treat indulge yourself with one of these luxury flavours of ice cream. 
step up The union is considering stepping up its industrial action.
take part in, be/become involved in His research indicates an increase in the number of women involved in industrial action.
against The union is threatening industrial action against the company.
cottage Weaving and knitting are traditional cottage industries.
assist, develop, encourage, help, stimulate The government decided to encourage industries based on biotechnology. government measures to stimulate new industry
run down Running down the nuclear industry will result in heavy job losses.
damage They claim that a commercial port would damage the local tourist industry.
subsidize The state's timber industry is heavily subsidized.
interfere in/with The government has interfered in industry, with disastrous results, by attempting to alter economic trends.
be involved in/with More than 140,000 people are directly involved in the industry.
enter, go into students training to enter the catering industry She decided to leave teaching and go into industry. 
develop, grow up, spring up In the favourable economic environment, new light industries are constantly springing up.
boom, expand, grow The tourist industry is still expanding rapidly.
close down, disappear When the railway disappeared, other industries associated with it closed down.
standard They hope that the disk drive will become an industry standard. 
in/within ~ In the computer industry, change comes about very rapidly. 
a captain of industry, commerce and industry The banks lend money 
be, prove, seem These policies have proved ineffective.
make sth, render sth The contract was rendered ineffective by this careless wording. 
against These weapons are totally ineffective against tanks.
politically, socially It would be politically inept to cut these training programmes now. 
at He was rather inept at word games. 
completely She lay completely inert on her bed.
accept She was learning to accept the inevitability of death. 
about The tragedy had a certain inevitability about it. 
be, seem Her energy seemed inexhaustible. 
reveal, show She showed her inexperience by asking lots of trivial questions.
be down to The team's defensive errors were down to (= a result of their) inexperience.
put sth down to He put his mistakes down to (= believed they were caused by his) inexperience. 
show Her inexperience in politics did not show as she debated with the other candidates. 
because of/from/through ~ They made mistakes through inexperience.
completely, quite, totally Their actions are completely inexplicable.
otherwise This theory makes sense of an otherwise inexplicable phenomenon. 
young He is studying hearing in very young infants.
screaming, sleeping Marjorie looked down at the sleeping infant in her arms. 
primary, secondary If the primary infection is not treated further outbreaks may occur.
new Over 90% of all new infections occur in the developing world.
herpes, HIV, etc. 
have, suffer (from) He's suffering from an acute infection of the lower respiratory tract.
be at risk from/of, be prone/susceptible/vulnerable to Goats appear to be more susceptible to the infection than sheep.
be exposed to Vaccination is essential to protect people exposed to hepatitis B infection.
acquire, catch, contract, develop, get She's always getting chest infections.
pass (on), spread, transmit The infection is passed on through the horse feed.
carry Almost all the sheep on the farm carried the infection.
combat, fight The virus affects the body's immune system so that it cannot fight infection.
fight off, kill Normally, white blood cells fight off and kill infections.
spread They want to prevent the infection spreading to other parts of the body.
cause sth, result in sth Heavy lung infections may result in pneumonia. 
in~ In acute infections of the urinary tract the patient may suffer severe pain.
a cause of infection, the onset of infection The drug must be taken from the onset of the infection.
resistance to infection Taking vitamin C builds up your resistance to infection.
a risk of infection, a site of infection (medical) The urethra was the primary site of infection
a source of infection We are trying to trace the source of infection.
the spread of infection > Special page at ILLNESS 
be difficult to, be hard to It is difficult to infer anything from such scanty evidence.
from From this study we can reasonably infer that this behaviour is inherited. 
be, feel, seem Her obvious popularity made me feel inferior.
consider sb/sth, regard sb/sth as, see sb/sth as Women are often regarded as inferior. 
in These later paintings are slightly inferior in value.
to His later work was vastly inferior to his early work. 
numerical The invading force, conscious of their numerical inferiority at sea, decided on an airborne attack. 
complex He had an inferiority complex about his looks. 
to She accepted her inferiority to her rivals. 
a feeling/sense of inferiority, a position of inferiority, a sign of inferiority Using a false accent over the phone is a sign of inferiority. 
badly, heavily The building was heavily infested with cockroaches. 
extend into/to, stretch into/to Theoretically, a line can extend into infinity. 
at ~ Parallel lines meet at infinity.
into ~ In this weather the cliff face was a foggy drop into infinity. 
approach, tend to/towards As x approaches infinity y approaches zero. 
at ~ The usual convention is to choose the reference point at infinity. 
highly, very These gases are highly inflammable. 
with The balloon was kept fully inflated with hydrogen. 
beat, bring down/under control, check, combat, control, curb, cut, fight, get down/under control, keep down, keep in check, keep under control, reduce policies to beat inflation It is vital that inflation is kept in check.
keep pace with Wages are not keeping pace with inflation. 
be down Inflation is down to its lowest level in three years.
exceed sth, reach sth Inflation reached a monthly rate of 5%.
average sth, be at sth, run at sth, stand at sth Inflation is running at 4%.
fall, go down, slow Inflation has slowed to 7%.
deliberately When someone deliberately inflicts damage, it is a matter for the police.
maliciously, negligently (both law) He was charged with maliciously inflicting grievous bodily harm. 
on/upon They inflicted a humiliating defeat on their rivals. 
considerably, deeply, enormously, greatly, heavily, powerfully, profoundly, strongly This book influenced her profoundly.
directly, indirectly Pressure from industry bosses has directly influenced government policy.
unduly Try to be aware of external factors which may unduly influence your judgement. 
in Her parents tried to influence her in her choice of university. 
be easily/readily influenced He was naive and easily influenced by his friends. 
virus > Special page at ILLNESS 
merely, simply I am not advising you. I am merely informing you of the situation.
kindly, politely Next time you decide to take some action, kindly inform me.
bluntly ‘I won't do it!’ she informed him bluntly.
regret to I regret to inform you that you have been unsuccessful in your application.
be required to The clinic is required to inform the patient about possible alternative treatments. 
of We will immediately inform you of any changes to the programme. 
false It is alleged that he gave false information to the tax authorities.
available Further information is available on request.
price-sensitive There are legal constraints on the use of price-sensitive information.
bit, fragment, nugget, scrap, snippet She let slip a few nuggets of information about herself.
mine, wealth This book is a mine of information on the Romans. 
have Do you have the information I need?
retain, store James is able to retain an enormous amount of factual information in his head. database systems that process and store information
collect, gather The police are still questioning witnesses and gathering information.
dig up Have you dug up any further information on the suspect?
access Portable computers are good for accessing information while travelling.
leak Someone leaked information to the press.
pass on They passed on the information about the crime to the police.
exchange The French and British police will exchange information on wanted criminals.
withhold It was improper of the broker to withhold the information from the stock exchange.
present The way you present the information is important.
act on, go on At the moment we've very little information to go on. 
according to ~ According to information received by the police, the terrorists have left the country.
for sb's ~ This leaflet is produced for the information of our customers.
closely, well The kids are much better informed than I was at their age.
fully, properly Consumers must be fully informed of the services available.
adequately, reasonably I offer my observations as those of an interested and reasonably informed member of the general public.
reliably I am reliably informed that there are plans to close this school.
about They were poorly informed about their rights.
of We will keep you informed of any developments.
on Keep me informed on progress. 
comparatively, fairly, rather, relatively Disturbances are relatively infrequent in British prisons. 
be, sound The idea sounds quite ingenious 
deeply Prejudice remains deeply ingrained in many organizations. 
old He is Brixham's oldest inhabitant.
early The island's earliest inhabitants came from India.
have London has over seven million inhabitants. 
stand to He stood to inherit (= was likely to inherit) property worth £5 million. 
from She inherited some money from her mother. 
be genetically inherited How many of these traits are genetically inherited? 
seriously, severely, significantly Alcohol significantly inhibits the action of the drug.
tend to A large service sector and a small manufacturing sector would tend to inhibit growth in the economy. 
from The fear of dismissal inhibited employees from raising problems. 
get rid of, lose, overcome The children, at first shy, soon lost their inhibitions. 
without ~ Young children will participate in a drama class without inhibition.
~ about They had no inhibitions about voicing their feelings.
have The two authors have the same initials.
be/become known by She's always been known by her initials.
bear, carry A stone over the door bears the initials ‘R.P.’, which stand for ‘Ralph Piggot’.
carve, embroider, engrave (sth with), mark sth with, monogram sth with, put, sign, stamp (sth with), write He carved his girlfriend's initials in the rock. Now that she was managing director she could put the initials MD after her name. 
for When writing, if you use initials for a long name, make sure you spell out the name at least once. 
into It was my initiation into the world of high fashion. 
booster Can I bring my dog in for his booster injection?
lethal In some US states execution is by lethal injection.
have He had to have a tetanus injection after injuring himself with a shovel.
administer, give sb, perform They gave her an injection to stop the pain.
receive The rats received a daily injection of the drug. 
by ~ The best treatment is antibiotics, preferably by injection.
~ with Both groups received a second injection with the same solution. 
capital, cash An undisclosed buyer will provide a much-needed cash injection for the fragile balance sheet. 
from a cash injection from the Belgian state
an injection of capital/cash/money/resources The company had reached the size where it needed an injection of capital. 
seriously, severely This incident could seriously injure the company's reputation. 
permanent Researchers have determined that heading a football can cause permanent injury.
run, series, spate He missed most of the season with a spate of injuries. 
do yourself, incur, pick up, receive, suffer You'll do yourself an injury riding that old bike. She picked up an injury during the quarter-final.
risk The doctor said he would risk serious injury if he were to fall again.
cause (sb/sth), inflict The car turned right over, causing severe injury to the driver. Please help me before our dogs inflict serious injury on each other!
carry, have, nurse, suffer from She has replaced him in the team while he nurses a shoulder injury.
feign He was accused of feigning injury.
aggravate He aggravated a neck injury while playing for Derby County.
die from/of The inquest heard that he died from multiple injuries.
avoid, escape Stretching exercises can help avoid injury. 
overcome, shake off She has failed to shake off her stomach injury.
deal with, treat, be treated for Finger injuries should be dealt with immediately. He is still being treated for injuries to his legs.
go off with He went off (= off the playing field) with an injury in the second half.
be out with She is out (= out of the competition/team) for six weeks with a hamstring injury.
pull out because of/due to/with He pulled out with (= decided not to compete because of) an injury at the last moment.
be back after/from, come back from, return after/from She should be back from injury.
have sb back after India had wicketkeeper More back after injury. 
happen (to sb), occur This type of injury could happen to any player at any time.
dog sb/sth, hamper sb/sth, trouble sb Her athletics career has been dogged by injury.
sideline sb Both defenders have been sidelined by injury.
force sb to The knee injury forced him to give up playing at the age of 23.
problems The team has a lot of injury problems.
time They scored two goals in injury time (= time added at the end of a game because the game has been interrupted by injured players needing treatment). 
because of ~ She's unable to play because of injury.
through ~ He has pulled out of the match through injury.
with ~ She slumped to the floor with injuries to her back and neck.
add insult to injury It adds insult to injury (= it make things worse) that banks are allowed to increase their charges without our knowledge or consent.
a risk of injury There is a real risk of injury in sports such as climbing. 
wet Be careful. The ink is still wet.
India/Indian
use Most people now use ballpoints rather than ink.
write in He wrote very neatly in blue ink.
dry Allow the ink to dry.
smudge The drawback of this printer is that the ink tends to smudge. 
cartridge We need to replace the ink cartridge in the printer.
in ~ There were several alterations in ink. 
former a former inmate of Gloucester jail
move, transfer The inmates were moved to an undisclosed location. 
be, plead He pleaded innocent to the charges.
believe sb, presume sb I had always believed her innocent. The accused person should always be presumed innocent until proved guilty.
declare sb, find sb, prove sb The court found her innocent of the crime. 
of I am totally innocent of this crime. 
be, look, play, seem, sound Stop playing innocent and answer my questions, please. 
all, altogether, perfectly She tried to sound all innocent as she asked the question. The circumstance could be altogether innocent, but suspicions have been raised.
be, seem She was sixteen and sweetly innocent. 
stifle Too strict a regulatory system will stifle innovation. 
occur Technical innovation may occur directly in the factory. 
come up with She believed she had come up with one of the greatest innovations of modern times.
introduce Many innovations were introduced by the 1919 Act.
by Mathematical astronomy was the great innovation by the Greeks of the 5th century BC.
order The court ordered a fresh inquest into the tragedy.
hear sth An elderly woman froze to death, an inquest heard yesterday.
decide sth, find sth An inquest found that the deceased had died of a drugs overdose.
return a verdict The inquest returned a verdict of accidental death. 
at a/the ~ A verdict of suicide was recorded at the inquest.
become, go He later became insane and was confined to an asylum. He went almost insane when he heard that his daughter had died.
drive sb You're driving me nearly insane with that noise.
certify sb, declare sb In 1975 she was certified clinically insane and sent to a mental hospital. 
criminally He is criminally insane, unable to stop himself attacking women. 
be, seem It seems insane to cut the budget now. 
quite, totally The whole idea is quite insane. 
personally The volume had been personally inscribed by the author.
suitably He sent me a number of his books, all suitably inscribed. 
on Her name was inscribed on the watch.
with The watch was inscribed with her name. 
beneficial Unfortunately, pesticides kill off beneficial insects as well as harmful ones.
social Social insects, such as ants, live in large colonies. 
buzz An insect was buzzing around the room.
bore Insects had bored deep into the wood.
attack The wood should be treated against insect attack.
pests Gardeners welcome birds as they control insect pests.
world Wasps are the master builders of the insect world. 
general The prime minister spoke of the general insecurity in the country.
to/towards The government has shown complete insensitivity to the refugees. 
between The English translation is inserted between the lines of text.
in/into Fine needles are gently inserted into the patient's skin.
through A probe was inserted through his mouth. 
pale into, fade into Her achievements fade into insignificance beside those of her sisters. 
resent I deeply resent the insinuation that I'm only interested in the money. 
about Why did you make those veiled insinuations about me?
abandon, drop The union has dropped its earlier insistence that workers should receive bonus payments. 
at/on sb's ~ At the insistence of his father, he bought himself a new suit.
in These chemicals are practically insoluble in water. 
public The records are open to public inspection.
international They have refused to allow international inspection of their nuclear facilities.
on-site, site Following an on-site inspection, the surveyor prepared a written report on the property. 
be available for, be open for/to, be subject to A company's accounting records must be open for inspection at all times. Nursing agencies are subject to inspection by the health authority.
bear (literary) He knew that his motives would not bear too close an inspection (= that his motives were not good).
carry out, conduct, make The architect is carrying out a thorough inspection of the building.
pass The hotel passed its annual inspection.
reveal sth, show sth, suggest sth Closer inspection of the vase revealed it to be a fake.
for ~ He held out the saucepan for inspection.
on/upon ~ The report seemed impressive at first, but on closer inspection there were several inaccuracies.
a tour of inspection The head went on a tour of inspection of all the classrooms. 
direct His wife was the direct inspiration for the main character in the book.
flash, moment In a flash of sheer inspiration, I decided to paint the whole house white. 
derive, draw, find, gain, get, owe, take The movement draws much of its inspiration from the Greek philosophers. Many of us found inspiration in her teaching. Where did you get the inspiration for the book? Her latest book owes its inspiration to childhood memories.
look for, seek He peered into his glass, as if seeking inspiration there.
come (from sth) One day the inspiration just came. Her inspiration comes from Asia. 
behind He was the inspiration behind last week's victory.
~ for The sea has provided an inspiration for many of his paintings.
to She's been a great inspiration to me. 
be, seem None of the leaders seems very inspiring.
find sth/sb People find her inspiring. 
far from, hardly, less than, not particularly A pile of ironing is hardly inspiring. 
properly, safely Make sure the equipment is properly installed. (figurative) She saw her guests safely installed in their rooms and then went downstairs.
easily The loft ladder is easily installed.
professionally A professionally installed alarm will cost from about £500. 
be easy to, be simple to The switches are cheap to buy and easy to install. 
(any) given, particular, specific Further information is required to determine the correct answer in any given instance.
classic This is a classic instance of Dostoevsky's writing operating on two levels. 
give, provide North America provides the most striking instance of European settlement on a grand scale.
cite (sth as), take Experts cite the country as an instance where human rights violations could lead to international intervention. To take a particular instance of this problem: …
recall I cannot recall any other instance in modern times in which a huge and mighty state crumbled to dust. 
occur An instance of this controversy occurred last year.
show sth This instance shows how important it is to check that the machine is working properly before you use it. 
for ~ (= for example) Murder, petty theft and tax evasion, for instance, all have different motives and consequences.
in … ~ In one instance, several people had their mobile phones stolen. It is not always helpful to draw analogies between sexism and racism, but in this instance it is useful.
~ of This is an instance of his general attitude to his employees. 
in the first instance (formal) In the first instance, a letter from your employer may be all you need. 
brief, fleeting For a brief instant, I thought she was going to fall.
one, single His news was too important to be contained for a single instant longer. 
pause for He paused for an instant before continuing. 
for an ~ Just for an instant I thought he was going to refuse.
in an ~ It was all over in an instant.
~ after/before She woke up in the instant before the phone rang. 
any) given, (any) one At any given instant the distribution of molecular speeds is always constant under the same conditions.
very He took out his keys to lock the door. At that very instant the door flew open and a man ran into the room. 
at … ~ The bomb could go off at any instant. 
first, initial His first instinct was to run away from danger.
good, unerring Against her better instincts, she ran back into the burning house to save some of her jewellery. He had an unerring instinct for when people were lying to him.
fighting, hunting, killer, predatory (often figurative) He plays well but lacks that killer instinct that wins matches.
herd What makes all these people come to the club? In my view it's the herd instinct.
develop In negotiating you have to develop an instinct for when to be tough and when to make a deal.
follow, go on, obey, rely on, trust Why don't you just follow your natural instincts?
appeal to They accused the campaign of appealing to the electorate's baser instincts.
share Both superpowers shared the same instinct for self-preservation. 
tell sb sth Her instinct told her that she was being followed.
guide sb Artists have to learn to be guided by their instincts.
take over Her instincts took over and she dived on the escaping thief.
be right/wrong I've trusted my instincts in the past and they've usually been right. 
by ~ Babies know by instinct who their mother is.
on ~ I acted purely on instinct.
~ for He's got an instinct for survival in a tough job. 
belong to She belongs to the Chartered Institute of Management.
find sth The environmental research institute found that the global average temperature had risen by 1.2°C.
claim sth, say sth The Institute says that an unidentified virus is to blame for the syndrome.
at an/the ~ She used to give lectures at the Mechanics' Institute.
in/within an/the ~ He is a key figure in the Institute of Mathematics.
~ for the International Institute for Economic Development
a founder of an institute, a member of an institute > Note at ORGANIZATION 
explicitly, specifically You were explicitly instructed to wait here. 
as instructed I took the pills as instructed. 
extremely, highly, most, particularly, very It was a most instructive day.
blunt The autopsy revealed that the deceased had been hit with a blunt instrument. (figurative) Even though it was a somewhat blunt instrument (= not very precise), our questionnaire provided us with some interesting ideas.
use All pupils should learn to use drawing instruments.
build, make All the instruments are made from glass capillary tubing. 
check The pilot did his instrument checks and taxied towards the runway.
panel There was a warning light flashing on the instrument panel. 
play (on) She plays three musical instruments. The score was written to be played on a keyboard instrument.
tune Ensure the instrument is tuned to concert pitch.
make an instrument made by a woman guitar maker in Canada 
sound The instrument sounds like a cello. 
maker > Special page at MUSIC 
good, great They agreed that the UN was the best instrument for reaching agreement.
mere Some cynics say that sport is a mere instrument of capitalist domination.
chosen The despot claimed to be the chosen instrument of divine providence.
perceive sb/sth as, regard sb/sth as, see sb/sth as, view sb/sth as They saw criminal law as an instrument for improving public morals.
for Criminal law is not the best instrument for dealing with family matters.
~ of She was accused of making a public service an instrument of private advantage. 
for The resources available are quite insufficient for the task. 
ultimate Whatever you do, don't call a ‘railway enthusiast’ a trainspotter?it's the ultimate insult.
hurl, offer (literary), shout, throw They were hurling insults at the police. The king is unlikely to forgive the insult offered to his ambassador.
mean sth as I don't mean this as an insult, but I think the team would play better without you.
take sth as I meant it as a bit of constructive advice, but he took it as a personal insult
endure, suffer Foreigners have to suffer constant insults from the local population.
exchange, trade The two groups of fans exchanged insults. 
fly Insults were flying back and forth. 
to It was an insult to his wife. 
add insult to injury Only 300 people came to the match and to add insult to injury (= to make things worse), the floodlights went out during the second half.
an insult to your intelligence The questions were a real insult to our intelligence (= because they were too easy). 
find sth, regard sth as I find it insulting to be spoken to in that way. 
almost He made the question sound almost insulting.
deliberately Her tone was deliberately insulting. 
to His opinions are highly insulting to women. 
privately There is evidence that privately insured patients are offered a higher level of care. 
against Your video is not insured against accidental damage.
for I was not adequately insured for the damage my tenants caused. 
armed Years of discontent turned into armed insurrection.
popular There was a popular insurrection against the police. 
plan, plot They were accused of plotting insurrection against the government.
have Make sure you have a balanced intake of vitamins A, B, C and D.
maintain You should maintain a low intake of fat.
control, watch You need to watch your alcohol intake.
cut, cut down (on), limit, lower, reduce, restrict One of the best ways to get to your ideal size is to cut fat intake right down. 
have The school has an annual intake of 20 to 30.
clog (up) Algae has clogged the intake to the water turbine. 
harsh, sharp She gave a sharp intake of breath. 
economic, monetary, political, racial, social We are working to bring about closer political integration in the EU.
~ with He called for greater integration with Europe.
a move towards integration a move towards greater internal integration in Europe
have She has a formidable intellect.
exercise He enjoyed exercising his intellect in analysing the controversies of his day. 
fairly, quite, reasonably He should be able to solve the problem. He's reasonably intelligent.
fully She fully intends to continue her sporting career once she has recovered from her injuries.
originally He had originally intended to stay in the country for only a year or two. 
for It was thought that the bomb might have been intended for a visiting MP. 
fierce, great The sun beat down with fierce intensity. He studied the report with great intensity.
grow in, increase (in) Her headaches started to increase in intensity.
in ~ The pain was growing in intensity. 
clearly, evidently, obviously They are clearly intent on maintaining standards. 
on/upon He was intent on murder. 
suddenly Her gaze was suddenly intent. 
on She was very intent on her work. 
with This hormone interacts closely with other hormones in the body. 
with He interacts very well with other children. 
fully The program is fully interactive. 
on the ~ I spoke to her on the intercom and said I'd call round later.
over the ~ Mr Jack's arrival was announced over the intercom. 
avid, burning, close, considerable, consuming, deep, great, intense, keen, lively, passionate, strong The police were starting to take a close interest in the company's activities. She always had a great interest in the supernatural.
slightest He's never shown the slightest interest in football.
added I'll watch the programme with added interest now I know you're in it.
polite He showed a polite interest in her story.
media The event attracted a lot of media interest. 
evince, express, show, take My cousin expressed an interest in seeing where I work.
feign, simulate She feigned interest in a magazine article to avoid meeting the man's stare.
arouse, attract, awaken, caught, drum up, excite, generate, kindle, spark, stimulate, stir up, whip up A sticker on a bag caught my interest. The government failed to drum up any public interest in the referendum. A childhood journey sparked his lifelong interest in railways.
develop While in prison he developed an interest in art.
maintain, sustain Despite intensive publicity, Channel 4 failed to maintain interest in its expensive new show.
flag, wane The children's interest began to flag after half an hour of the lesson. 
for/out of ~ I'm asking purely out of interest.
with ~ They listened with interest.
~ in She took an active interest in their welfare. 
particular Her comments are of particular interest to me.
academic Since the championship has already been decided, this match is of purely academic interest.
love Angelina Jolie supplies the love interest in the film. 
be of His books are of no interest to me at all.
hold no Their conversation held no interest for me.
add Bushes that flower in winter will add interest to your garden.
lie in The interest of the painting lies in its unusual use of colour. 
pursue He wanted time to pursue his many and varied musical interests. 
best It's not in your best interests to let your boss know you're looking for a new job.
direct Lawyers have a direct financial interest in the outcome of the debate.
act in, advance, champion, further, promote, serve He claimed to be acting in the public interest.
group Various interest groups have expressed their opposition to the policy. 
against sb/sth's ~(s) The solicitor refused to act against his client's interests.
contrary to sb/sth's ~ The union refused to support proposals that it saw as contrary to the interests of its members.
in sb/sth's ~(s) New work practices were introduced in the interests of efficiency.
of ~ We met to discuss matters of common interest.
out of ~ He was obviously acting purely out of selfish interest. 
a conflict of interests One member of the planning committee had a conflict of interests as he lived near the proposed motorway.
have sb's (best) interests at heart Although he was sometimes too strict with his children, he had their best interests at heart. 
have He has controlling interests in several ventures.
become, get She got very interested in politics.
get sb We need to get more young people interested in the sport.
keep sb You need to keep your audience interested. 
deeply, especially, extremely, greatly, intensely, keenly, more than a little, most, particularly, passionately, really, seriously, specially, terribly, very (much) Ben must have been more than a little interested in the possibility to have pursued it so far.
not at all, not (in) the least bit, not in the least, not remotely He's not in the least bit interested in girls.
only half, not much, not very Carrie was only half interested in the conversation.
just ‘Why do you ask?’ ‘I'm just interested, that's all.’
enough, sufficiently I wasn't interested enough in the argument to take sides one way or the other.
always, long I am always interested in how differently people can look at the same event. Charles had long been interested in architecture.
actively As a landowner, he was actively interested in agricultural improvements.
in She's always been interested in other people. 
seriously Emotional problems can seriously interfere with a student's work.
directly The judge cannot interfere directly in these proceedings.
not lightly The court will not lightly interfere while an interim order is in place. 
have a right to Britain has no right to interfere in the internal affairs of other countries.
try and/to If you try and interfere in my life, I'll leave.
be reluctant to The courts are reluctant to interfere in these matters. 
with You mustn't interfere with her work. 
period The value of the property almost doubled during the interim period.
award, damages The injured passenger received an interim award of £50,000 damages.
in the ~ Her job was done by her deputy in the interim before she returned to work. 
on an interim basis The company uses the agency when a vacancy needs to be filled on an interim basis. 
~ in He'd had two romantic interludes in a rather lonely life.
be, seem The journey seemed interminable. 
seemingly For several seemingly interminable seconds no one spoke. 
differently Different people might interpret events differently.
broadly, liberally The term ‘business’ is here interpreted broadly to include all types of organization in the public and private sectors. The strictness of the rules, even when liberally interpreted, has the effect of restricting innovation.
metaphorically It is context and convention that determine whether a term will be interpreted literally or metaphorically.
easily, readily These figures cannot be easily interpreted.
cautiously These results must be interpreted cautiously. 
seek to, try to We all seek to interpret what we hear and what we read. 
as Her message was interpreted as a warning to the general. 
be variously interpreted (as sth) The figure of the Ancient Mariner has been variously interpreted (= interpreted in various different ways).
be widely interpreted as sth Her resignation has been widely interpreted as an admission of her guilt. 
speak through Speaking through an interpreter, a Japanese fisherman gave his account of the tidal wave. 
for Susan acted as interpreter for us. > Note at JOB 
conduct The interrogation was conducted by senior police officers. 
during ~ She revealed the name of her accomplice during interrogation.
under ~ Under interrogation, he refused to say anything at first. 
power/powers of interrogation The committee has no power of interrogation. 
brief, minor, short, temporary The game continued after a short interruption because of rain.
constant, endless, repeated I found it hard to work with all the noise and constant interruptions. 
ignore He ignored her interruption and carried on talking. 
without ~ Can I please have this conversation on the phone without interruptions?
~ from He continued speaking despite regular interruptions from the Opposition.
~ to The birth of her son was a minor interruption to her career. 
militarily Intervening militarily will not bring peace. 
be forced to, have to Eventually, the army was forced to intervene.
be powerless to Local people feel strongly about the proposed development but are virtually powerless to intervene.
have the power to, have the right to Our government has no right to intervene.
refuse to The UN refused to intervene. 
against They would not intervene against the rebels themselves.
between She went over to intervene between the two men.
in She was reluctant to intervene in what was essentially a private dispute.
on behalf of The King intervened personally on behalf of the children.
job I've got a job interview tomorrow. 
carry out, conduct, do, hold The survey team carried out over 200 interviews with retired people.
do, give (sb), grant (sb) He's a very private man and rarely does interviews.
in an/the ~ He said in an interview that he wanted to get married.
~ about The prime minister gave the paper an interview about his musical tastes.
~ between an interview between the French Foreign Minister and the President of Egypt
~ with He had an interview with United Biscuits. an interview with the Vietnamese leader 
a round of interviews We're about to start the second round of interviews for the post. 
into The police had tried to intimidate him into signing a confession. 
an attempt to intimidate sb, be easily intimidated He was not a man to be easily intimidated.
feel intimidated She did not feel intimidated by him. 
make sth The constant pain made her life intolerable.
consider sth, find sth I find his rudeness intolerable. 
almost, nearly The job placed almost intolerable pressure on her. 
to The situation had become intolerable to him. 
of They are deeply intolerant of all opposition. 
learn, master, understand I've never mastered the intricacies of cricket.
against The prime minister engaged in political intrigues against the king. 
formally, properly We have met before, but we haven't been formally introduced. 
allow me to, can, let me, may Let me introduce myself. May I introduce my wife, Sarah? 
as He introduced me as a new member of the company.
to She introduced me to her neighbours. 
intend to, plan to, want to The local council plans to introduce new regulations on parking.
attempt to, try to She attempted in vain to introduce some order into the classroom. 
into New technology is rapidly being introduced into factories. 
newly/recently introduced These measures have only been recently introduced. 
catch, disturb, find, startle, surprise He surprised a masked intruder in the kitchen.
deter, keep away/out Dogs can deter unwelcome intruders.
tackle He was stabbed when he tackled an intruder armed with a knife.
repel Staff were instructed to repel intruders with physical force, if need be. 
break into, force their way into Intruders had forced their way into the house. 
visually Planning permission was refused on the grounds that the proposed building would be ‘visually intrusive’. 
make sb/sth His knowledge of the area made him invaluable.
find sth You will find their help absolutely invaluable. 
for This technology is invaluable for pupils with poor sight.
to Your support has been invaluable to us. 
heavily The company invested heavily in new technology.
directly If you invest directly in the stock market potential profits are greater, but so are potential losses.
tax-free We can invest your money tax-free abroad.
be willing to Are you willing to invest the time and effort necessary to make the scheme work?
look to, plan to, seek to investors looking to invest in US companies
rush to When exchange controls were lifted Swedes rushed to invest abroad.
fail to The industry has failed to invest in new product development. 
with Her savings are invested with a building society. 
extensive The authorities conducted an extensive investigation into his tax affairs.
carry out, conduct, pursue Police are still pursuing their investigations.
reveal sth, show sth Closer investigation showed this idea to be untenable. 
on ~ On investigation, the noise turned out to be only a door banging.
under ~ The singer is currently under investigation for possessing illegal drugs.
~ into Police have launched an investigation into the allegations. 
the subject of an investigation The matter is the subject of a police investigation, and we have been advised not to comment. 
ordinary, small Many ordinary investors stand to lose money in this affair.
attract, encourage A stable firm is more likely to attract potential investors.
buy sth, invest in sth Investors will be able to buy the shares from next week.
make sb/sth, render sb/sth He wished that he could make himself invisible. It's interesting how women are rendered invisible in these statistics. 
to Infrared light is invisible to the human eye. 
cordially, kindly, warmly You are cordially invited to attend the annual parish meeting. She very kindly invited me to lunch.
along, around/round/over, back, in, out They've invited us over for a drink. 
into As a child I was allowed to play in the garden at the Manor, but I never got invited into the house.
for Let's invite them all for dinner.
to Thank you for inviting me to the meeting. 
positively The hype and fervour surrounding the event positively invited scepticism. 
seem to The film seems to invite comparison with ‘The Italian Job’. 
final Please pay the final invoice within two weeks.
tax, VAT The seller has to issue a tax invoice. 
price, value The shipping costs can be as high as 50% of the invoice value of the goods. 
closely, deeply, heavily, intimately, very She became heavily involved in politics.
actively He wanted to be actively involved in school life.
directly Drugs were not directly involved in her death.
in He was involved in a road accident.
with She first became involved with the organization in 1998. 
with I never wanted to get emotionally involved with him. 
extremely, terribly, very It all sounds terribly involved and complicated.
make, produce, smelt Germany produced enormous quantities of coal, iron and steel.
tablets I was put on iron tablets for my anaemia. 
use Use a cool iron on synthetics. 
run an iron over sth I just need to run an iron over my shirt, then I'm ready. 
great, heavy She tried to ignore the heavy irony in his voice.
gentle She congratulated him with gentle irony.
neat, nice It is a nice irony that the Minister of Transport missed the meeting because her train was delayed.
final, supreme, ultimate The final irony was that he became Minister of Education having left school at 12.
hint, touch, trace He thanked us all without a touch of irony. 
by a … ~ By a cruel irony, he died in a crash while returning home from the war. 
with These practices are irreconcilable with the law of the Church. 
widespread The newspaper claimed there were widespread irregularities in the election.
electoral, financial, procedural, voting Investigators found no evidence of financial irregularity. 
occur, take place Irregularities occur when there is no central control. 
in Auditors have uncovered serious irregularities in the accounts. 
make sb/sth The very high salary made the job irresistible.
find sb/sth You'll find our offer irresistible. 
apparently, seemingly Public spending has an apparently irresistible momentum.
to His rugged good looks made him irresistible to women. 
at She was deeply irritated at being thwarted.
by He was slightly irritated by her forgetfulness. 
hia, Sunni > Note at RELIGION(for verbs and phrases) 
leave sb/sth Without help, many elderly people would be left isolated.
keep sb/sth She kept herself almost isolated from her colleagues. 
culturally, diplomatically, economically, geographically, physically, socially a culturally isolated community Unless a compromise could be reached the country would be diplomatically isolated on this issue. 
big, burning, central, critical, crucial, important, key, main, major, vital Europe remains the burning issue within the party.
wider The problem raises wider issues of gender and identity.
real The real issue is where the power lies.
live, unresolved The strike of ten years ago is still very much a live issue in the town.
debate, discuss This evening we're debating the issue of the legalization of soft drugs.
decide, settle A referendum was held to settle the issue.
focus on We really need to focus on this one issue and not get sidetracked.
touch on The issue of birth control was touched on, but we need to examine it in more detail.
highlight The report highlights three issues.
confuse This argument should not be allowed to confuse the issue.
underlie sth A more important issue underlies this debate. 
at ~ What you say is interesting, but it does not affect the point at issue here.
on an/the ~ She spoke on the issue of private health care.
~ relating to The conference examined key issues relating to the reform. 
in an/the ~ an article in the current issue of ‘Newsweek’ 
talian noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
make sb The heat made me itch all over. 
for He was itching for a chance to show how good he was.
with Her fingers positively itched with the desire to slap his face. 
include sth Your itinerary includes a visit to Stonehenge. 
in an/the ~ Historic sites are featured prominently in their itineraries.
on an/the ~ The National Gallery is on most tourists' itinerary. 
grow We're going to grow a variegated ivy up the back of the house.
cut back, cut down, keep down The ivy's got very thick. It needs cutting back a bit.
be covered in The walls were covered in ivy. 
grow Ivy grew up the side of the house.
climb, cling, crawl, creep, trail, twine There was ivy clinging to the wall. 
get, hit, scoop, win (figurative) The National Theatre hit the jackpot with its first musical, ‘Guys and Dolls’. 
in They scooped the jackpot in yesterday's lottery.
~ on He won the jackpot on the football pools. 
spread (sth with) She spread the toast thinly with raspberry jam. 
bread and jam > Special page at FOOD 
anuary noun > Note at MONTH 
fill He was filling a jar with coins for his holiday.
finger, rub, stroke He fingered his jaw thoughtfully.
drop, sag My jaw dropped in astonishment when I saw the size of the audience.
be set, clench, set, tighten Her jaw was set, ready for a fight.
jut His jaw jutted stubbornly forward; he would not be denied. 
in your ~ A muscle in his jaw pulsed angrily.
on your ~ He had two days' growth of stubble on his jaw.
under your ~ She had a fold of flesh under her jaw. 
the line/set of your jaw The stern set of the officer's jaw made Tony realize he was in trouble. 
massive, powerful A shark can crush a boat with its massive jaws.
slavering The slavering jaws of the guard dog stopped anyone going near. 
clamp, close, lock, sink The dog locked its jaws on her leg and wouldn't let go. A spider sank its jaws into my ankle.
escape (from) The antelope could not escape the crocodile's gaping jaws. 
between its ~s The dog had his arm clamped between its jaws. 
make sb Ignore her?she's only trying to make you jealous. 
bitterly, furiously, insanely, madly, really, very I can remember feeling madly jealous when he was with other women.
obsessively Peter was obsessively jealous and his behaviour was driving his wife away.
about There's nothing for you to feel jealous about.
of She was rather jealous of me. He had started to get jealous of her success. 
pair She pulled on a pair of faded blue jeans. 
pocket > Special page at CLOTHES 
seriously This scandal could seriously jeopardize his chances of being re-elected. 
away, back, backwards, downwards, forward, round, up, upright, upwards She suddenly jerked her hand away. His head jerked up. 
jerk awake The train stopped and she jerked awake.
jerk sth open He jerked the door open.
jerk to a halt/stop The bus jerked to a stop. 
by ~ Australia was a mere couple of hours away by jet. She was flown by private jet to the capital Lusaka.
in a/the ~ He flew to Majorca in his private jet. 
of Little jets of steam spurted from the engine. 
bit, piece One piece of the jigsaw is still missing. 
do I used to enjoy doing jigsaws.
piece together (figurative) The police managed to piece together the jigsaw and reconstruct the victim's last hours.
a piece in a jigsaw (figurative) This is another piece in the jigsaw that will help us understand the biology of cancer. 
security Workers questioned rated job security as being more important than high salary.
hunter, seeker Local companies are holding an open day for job seekers.
sharing The introduction of job sharing could prevent the need for redundancies. 
in a/the ~ There's not much chance of promotion in a job like that.
on the ~ You will receive training on the job.
out of a ~ She found herself out of a job when her boss died.
~ as She's got a job as a waitress.
~ at She got a teaching job at the university.
~ with He moved to a better-paid job with another employer. 
a loss of jobs The closure of the cement factory will mean the loss of over 800 jobs.
high-powered, top It's one of the top jobs in management.
plum The plum jobs all went to friends of the prime minister.
cushy His father found him a cushy job in the office, with almost nothing to do and a whacking great salary.
dream, ideal What would be your dream job?
boring, dead-end, menial, routine, undemanding He was forced to take a series of menial jobs.
regular, steady He was tempted to give up freelancing and get a regular job.
evening, Saturday, weekend
proper He'd done lots of part-time work, but this was his first proper job.
have She's got a very good job with a local firm of solicitors.
find, get, land, take She got a temporary job stacking shelves. He's just landed himself a highly-paid job in the City.
lose He's frightened of losing his job. right person for the job Despite
know He certainly knows his job (= is very good at his job). 
pay The job doesn't pay very well.
difficult, hard, tough They gave me the tough job of telling applicants that they'd been rejected.
unenviable Cooper had the unenviable job of announcing the redundancies. 
do, make You've done a grand job with that decorating. Try wedging it open?that should do the job (= be effective/successful). She made a very good job of covering up the damage.
have (on) You'll have a hard job convincing them that you're right. The builder has a couple of jobs on at the moment.
take on She's taken on the job of organizing the Christmas party.
get on with I want to get on with the job of painting my room today. 
in The author has done an admirable job in compiling all this material.
~ of He made a very professional job of replacing the windows.
~ on You've done a good job on the car. 
get a job done We're hoping to get the job done this weekend.
odd jobs (= small, practical jobs) I spend most Saturdays doing odd jobs around the house. 
do He got six months for that last job he did.
bungle The gang bungled the job and got caught. > Note at JOB 
go for He goes for a brisk jog before work each morning. 
at a ~ I began at a slow jog and gradually increased my pace. 
flock to By this time people were flocking to join the cult.
invite sb to They've invited us to join them on their yacht.
be allowed to She was now old enough to be allowed to join the adults.
be expected to Thousands of people are expected to join the sponsored walk.
for Will you join me shortly for a drink in the bar?
in I'm sure you will all wish to join me in thanking our speaker tonight.
with Please will you all join with me in singing the national anthem. 
come and join sb He waved a fork in greeting. ‘Come and join us!’
an invitation to join sb/sth PHRASAL VERBS join in 
enthusiastically They all joined enthusiastically in the dancing. 
with Everyone joined in with the singing. I wish he would join in with the other children. 
old That's an old joke?I've heard it lots of times.
crack, make, tell He's marvellous at telling jokes.
play He's always playing jokes on people.
have, share She likes to have a joke with her employees.
get, laugh at We all fell about laughing, but he didn't get the joke.
take The trouble is she can't take a joke.
treat sth as He treated his exams as a huge joke. 
fall flat The audience weren't very responsive and the jokes fell a bit flat.
be on sb I thought I'd play a trick on them, but in the end the joke was on me. 
as a ~ It was only said as a joke.
~ about Have you heard the joke about the elephant and the mouse? 
make a joke of sth We tried to make a joke of our situation, but it wasn't really funny. 
house/in-house the house journal of the South Western Gas Board
august, highly-ranked/high-ranking, leading, major, prestigious ‘Nature’ was the highest-ranked journal in thte survey.
official It's the official journal of the Medical Foundation.
copy Please send me two copies of your new journal.
buy, get, subscribe to She subscribes to quite a few academic journals. 
come out The journal comes out five times a year. 
~ of the British Journal of Geology 
keep, write Lady Franklin kept a daily journal of the voyage.
entry Her journal entry for that day describes a thunder storm. 
in a/the ~ The events are all recorded in her journal.
~ of He wrote a journal of his travels. 
onward The bus driver told us where to change buses for our onward journey.
comfortable, easy, good, pleasant, safe I hope you had a good journey. Have a safe journey.
epic an epic journey across Africa on foot
wasted The library was closed when I got there, so it was a wasted journey.
emotional, sentimental, spiritual He made the emotional journey back to the house he grew up in. 
go on, have, make He wasn't there and we had a wasted journey.
break We broke our return journey in San Francisco.
continue, resume They continued their journey on foot.
take (sb) The journey takes about five hours. His journey took him across central Asia.
on ~ They were on a journey to the Far East.
~ across, ~ between, ~ down the journey down the Rhine
~ through, ~ to The bus journey from London to Athens took 60 hours.
be tired after/from a journey, a leg/stage of a journey Dawn was breaking as we set out on the last leg of our journey. 
appeal (court), appellate, circuit, county court, district, federal, High Court, Supreme Court 
be, sit as By next year you could be sitting as a High Court judge.
preside, sit Which judge will be sitting next week?
call sb The judge called the remaining witness for the Crown.
direct sb The judge must direct the jury on points of law.
accept sth, admit sth The judge admitted the notes of the interview as evidence.
dismiss sth, refuse sth, reject sth The trial judge dismissed her compensation claim.
conclude sth, decide sth, find sth, hold sth, rule sth, uphold sth The judge held that the company had been negligent.
sum up The judge summed up and the jury retired to consider its verdict.
order sth The judge ordered the company to pay compensation to the claimant.
award (sb) sth, grant (sb) sth The judge awarded him damages of £20,000. 
the judges' decision The judges' decision on the entries is final. 
astute, good, great, shrewd You are the best judge of what your body needs. a shrewd judge of character
of He is a good judge of footballing talent. 
snap I hate having to make snap judgements.
form, make It's difficult to form a judgement when you don't have all the facts.
express Remember to be tactful when expressing a personal judgement.
confirm This latest case confirms my earlier judgement.
come to, reach It is too soon to reach any definitive judgement.
deliver, give, pass, pronounce The school inspector's function is not merely to pronounce judgement, but also to suggest improvements.
reserve, suspend The court reserved judgement on the two appeals.
obtain, win They obtained a judgement in their favour.
reverse They are trying to get the judgement reversed.
in sb's ~ What, in your judgement, would be the best way to deal with the problem?
~ about She must make her own judgement about when to go.
~ against The sacked workers won a judgement against the company.
~ as to Experience helps us to form judgements as to the best course of action in given circumstances.
~ on I'm not equipped to pass judgement on such matters. 
fine, good, remarkable, shrewd, sound Landing a plane requires fine judgement.
aesthetic, artistic, critical, ethical, moral, political, professional She has a reputation for sound professional judgement. 
respect, trust He trusted his wife's judgement.
back The company backed her judgement and implemented all her recommendations.
colour, influence He never allows any prejudices to colour his judgement.
sit in He felt he had no right to sit in judgement on someone he had only just met. 
about You will need to exercise your own judgement about what clothes to wear.
~ in The speaker showed good judgement in his choice of topic. 
an error of judgement Accepting the gift was an error of judgement on the part of the party chairman.
a lack of judgement, a matter of judgement How much money you should invest is a matter of judgement. 
fill, pour sth into He filled a jug with juice.
pour, tip She poured a jug of water over his head.
uly noun > Note at MONTH 
about, around, back, down, in, off, out, up, up and down He was jumping up and down with excitement. 
try to He tried to jump back on board. 
from He had to jump from a first floor window.
into, off, on Stop jumping on the furniture!
onto She jumped up onto the table.
out of, over Can you jump over that fence?
almost, nearly He almost jumped in surprise. 
make sb He crept up behind me and made me jump. 
jump out of your skin (figurative) I nearly jumped out of my skin when he told me. 
at a/the ~ Turn off the motorway at junction 6.
~ with The college is on the Manchester road, by the junction with the A5. 
concrete, urban (figurative) This outback area is a far cry from the city's concrete jungle. 
in ~ a temple deep in the Brazilian jungle
through ~ They hacked their way through dense jungle. 
bit, piece There were bits of junk lying around. 
room They cleared out the junk room to make a tiny bedroom.
material He made the boat out of junk materials. 
exclusive The commissioners had exclusive jurisdiction to decide.
have, retain The court has no jurisdiction in this case.
exercise The court may exercise its jurisdiction to compel the husband to make a settlement upon his wife.
claim The offshore government claims jurisdiction over the mainland.
be subject to, come under He is subject to the jurisdiction of the English courts. 
beyond your ~ She acted beyond the jurisdiction of any teacher.
outside your ~ The matter is outside the jurisdiction of UK administrative agencies.
under ~ The territory is still under Russian jurisdiction.
within your ~ The matter was not within the jurisdiction of the court.
~ over The senate committees have exclusive jurisdiction over the FBI. 
unanimous (only after jury) The jury were unanimous in their verdict.
hung A retrial was necessary after the original trial ended with a hung jury. 
tell Tell the jury what happened, in your own words.
direct The judge directed the jury to return a verdict of not guilty.
swear in The new jury were sworn in. 
hear sth The jury heard how the boy had obtained a carving knife from a friend's house.
consider its verdict The jury has retired to consider its verdict.
be out The jury is still out (= still deciding). (figurative) The jury is still out on this new policy.
convict sb, find sb guilty The jury convicted Menzies of assaulting Smith.
award sb The jury awarded her damages of £30,000. 
service It was the second time he had been called up for jury service.
before a ~ The trial will take place before a jury.
on a/the ~ There were only three women on the jury.
trial by jury You have a right to trial by jury. 
choose, select The jury is selected from the winners in previous years. 
consist of sb The jury consisted of an architect, a photographer and an artist.
award (sb) sth, give sb sth The jury has awarded the prize for best exhibit in the show to Harry Pearson. 
on a/the ~ He was on a jury judging a songwriting competition. 
consider sth, think sth We consider this action justifiable. 
on the grounds of/that The cutbacks are justifiable on the grounds of cost.
~ on … grounds The rule is justifiable on safety grounds. 
amply The suspicion proved amply justified.
economically, financially, legally, morally, rationally, scientifically, theoretically Can her actions be morally justified? 
in She felt fully justified in asking for a refund. 
a black, etc. belt in karate She's a black belt in karate. She's got a brown belt in karate. > Special page at SPORT 
earn It's time you did a job to earn your keep. 
dropped Dropped kerbs make wheelchair access easier. 
draw away from, pull away/out from The car pulled away from the kerb.
step off He stepped off the kerb without looking and was hit by a cyclist.
mount The car mounted the kerb and knocked over a pedestrian. 
at the ~ I parked at the kerb and waited.
on the ~ They stood on the kerb waiting to cross the road. 
turn She turned the key in the lock.
use She must have used a key to get in. 
open, unlock You need a key to open the garage.
turn They heard a key turn in the back door lock. 
with a/the ~ You have to close it with the key.
get a key cut I'll get another key cut so that you can have one. 
shortcut F1 is the shortcut key for calling up help. 
hit, hold down, press, touch Hold down the Alt key while pressing the arrow keys.
release > Special page at COMPUTER 
tell sb sth The key tells you what all the symbols mean. 
in a/the ~ You can find the symbols in the key at the bottom of the page.
have, hold First-time voters could hold the key to the election result. 
to Language is the key to understanding those around you. 
change The key changes from C major to A minor. 
signature There are two sharps in the key signature of D major. 
in a/the ~ What key's it in? Can we try it in a lower key?
~ of the key of G major 
give sb/sth Give the door a good kick if it won't open.
get, receive He had received a painful kick on the knee. 
~ by/from a kick from Maynard in the last minute of the game
get He gets a real kick out of mending something so that it can be used again.
give sb It gave the youngsters a kick to see their own play on television. 
for ~s They don't really want the things they steal. They just do it for kicks. 
big, older The older kids had lessons in the afternoon as well.
poor I feel desperately sorry for the poor kid.
bunch, couple They're just a bunch of kids. 
have We both wanted to have kids.
bring up I've tried to bring my kids up to respect other people.
just/only a kid He's only a kid. You can't expect him to understand what's going on.
like a kid She was crying like a kid. 
outright He has fought more than fifty bulls, killing three outright.
be prepared to They are quite prepared to kill to achieve their ends.
be going to, intend to (figurative) Mum's going to kill me when she finds out.
make sb It must have been really awful to make her kill herself. 
be tragically killed Their daughter was tragically killed in a road accident. 
mass, serial This was the fourth mass killing in Australia in four years.
mercy Should the law allow mercy killing?
order The Mafia ordered the killing.
prevent, stop It is difficult to prevent such killings.
deny The sentenced man had denied the killings. 
a motive for the killing No motive for the killing has yet been established. 
make Investors are set to make a killing from the sell-off. 
close, intimate, near Marriage between close kin is prohibited.
extended Ties with extended kin vary from family to family.
next of kin One of the drivers was fatally injured; his next of kin has been informed. 
different, same She does the same kind of work as me.
all, another, any, some, various You need some kind of cover over it to protect it from the rain. We stock various kinds of lawnmower.
certain, particular, special Certain kinds of food are unsuitable for small children.
right, wrong Be sure to eat enough of the right kind of food.
in ~ The regions differ in size, but not in kind.
of a ~ You're making progress of a kind (= some progress, but not very much, or not of the best type). They're two of a kind (= very like each other)?both workaholics!
of its ~ The new school was the first of its kind.
a/the kind of thing Do you know the kind of thing I mean? They sell all kinds of things.
a kind of way I missed him, in a funny kind of way.
nothing/something of that/the kind ‘I was terrible!’ ‘You were nothing of the kind!’ ‘He's resigning.’ ‘I'd suspected something of the kind.’ 
uncrowned (figurative) He became the uncrowned king of the East End, scoring 28 goals in his first season.
crown (sb), make sb, proclaim sb He was crowned king at the age of fifteen. The new king was crowned immediately.
reign, rule, rule (over) sb/sth The kings of Sicily also ruled over the southern part of Italy.
under a/the ~ Life under the new king was very different.
~ of the King of Spain 
catch, get, have Try to catch some kip while you can.
an hour's, a night's, etc. kip I was feeling much better after a good night's kip. 
lingeringly, long He kissed her long and hard on the mouth. 
bend to, stoop to He bent to kiss her again.
on She let him kiss her lightly on the cheek. 
kiss and cuddle The love-struck pair have been spotted kissing and cuddling at parties.
kiss sb full on the lips/mouth, kiss sb goodbye/goodnight, kiss goodbye to sth (figurative) Well, you can kiss goodbye to your chances of promotion. 
hatch We handed our trays through the kitchen hatch as we left.
facilities All our chalets have kitchen facilities.
unhappy He had the unhappy knack of making enemies in the party. 
acquire, develop, get Once you get the knack, it's easy.
lose I don't cook much these days and I think I may have lost the knack. 
~ of He has the knack of scoring goals just when they are most needed.
~ to Making omelettes isn't difficult, but there's a knack to it. 
drawn-up I rested my chin on my drawn-up knees.
hug He hugged his knees to keep warm.
drop (down) on, drop to, fall on/to, go down on, sink to He went down on his knees and begged for forgiveness.
sit on She sat on her father's knee (= lap) while he read her a story.
slap He slapped his knee as he rocked with laughter.
pat He patted her knee reassuringly. 
buckle, give way Suddenly her knees buckled and she fell to the floor.
above the ~, across your ~s She had a blanket draped across her knees.
at sb's ~ The children had learnt these stories at their mother's knee.
below the ~ His leg was missing below the knee.
between your ~s If you hear the crash-landing warning, put your head between your knees.
in your ~ He's snapped a ligament in his knee.
on one ~ I went down on one knee to plug in the vacuum cleaner.
on your ~ I balanced the pile of books on my knees. He was on his knees, searching for the missing spring.
to your ~s The blow knocked him to his knees. 
bring sth to its knees (figurative) The fuel shortage brought the country to its knees within weeks.
on bended knee (figurative) She would ask for a rise, but would not beg for one on bended knee. 
bread, butcher's, carving, craft, fish, flick, hunting, kitchen, palette, pocket, sheath, Stanley(R), surgeon's, table 
pick up She picked up her knife and fork and started to eat.
use Use a sharp knife to cut away the spare pastry.
cut That knife doesn't cut very well?it needs sharpening.
with a/the ~ The lines can be cut with a craft knife. 
be armed with, carry, have She carries a knife in her bag now.
draw (out), produce, pull (out), take out He suddenly pulled a knife on me.
come at sb with, stab sb with, threaten sb with She stabbed him in the back with a 12-inch knife.
plunge, push, put, stick He plunged the knife deep into her heart.
clatter As he fell, the knife clattered to the floor. 
award sb, bestow on sb, confer on sb, give sb, offer sb, reward sb with He was rewarded with a knighthood for his services to the government. 
control, volume Adjust the control knobs by pressing lightly. 
adjust, fiddle with, touch, turn, twiddle I've tried twiddling the knobs, but nothing seems to happen. 
accidentally I accidentally knocked the vase off the table.
about, aside, over Her boyfriend had been knocking her about. Mind you don't knock that glass over. 
against The stick knocked against the wall.
off He had knocked one of the pictures off the wall.
on I knocked my head on one of the beams. 
knock sb/sth flying He was knocked flying as two policemen came crashing through the door.
knock sb off their feet The explosion knocked him off his feet.
knock sb out/senseless/unconscious The blow knocked him unconscious.
at Someone knocked loudly at the door.
on She knocked timidly on the study door and entered. 
without knocking Dobson walked straight into her office without knocking. 
together I knotted the ropes together securely. 
around/round She knotted the scarf loosely around her neck. 
practical, technical VERB + KNOW-HOW have
~ for He doesn't have the technical know-how for this kind of job.
be, seem, sound Her lawyer seemed very knowledgeable and experienced.
about He's quite knowledgeable about the theatre. 
orean noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
bring Employees enjoy the kudos that the job brings as much as the financial rewards. 
be attached to sth There was considerable kudos attached to being on the advisory board. 
bear, carry, have It doesn't have a price label on it.
attach, put on, stick on She stuck labels on all the jars.
read Always read the label before taking any medicine. 
on a/the ~ What does it say on the label?
apply, attach, use One sometimes feels that the label ‘classic’ is applied to any book that is dull. 
sign to/with The band are hoping to sign with a major label by the end of the year. 
under a/the ~ The record was produced under the Virgin label. 
forced, hard He was sentenced to four years hard labour for his crime. 
withdraw The miners are threatening to withdraw their labour. 
child, migrant, slave It is thought that Stonehenge was built using slave labour. 
long, short The baby was born after a long labour. 
go into She went into labour two weeks early.
induce Labour was induced when the baby was ten days overdue. 
in ~ She was in labour for ten hours. 
completely, entirely She completely lacks confidence.
apparently He apparently lacked the desire to learn.
simply Perhaps you simply lack the intelligence to realize just how serious this is?
otherwise Her high-heeled shoes gave her the height she otherwise lacked.
somehow His claim somehow lacked conviction. 
appear to, seem to His life seemed to lack direction. 
apply, put on, spray on Apply the lacquer evenly. 
elderly, middle-aged, old, young A little old lady opened the door.
cleaning, dinner, tea The school employs four dinner ladies. 
friend We teased my uncle about his new lady friend. 
a lady of leisure She's a lady of leisure now that she's retired.
the lady of the house > Note at PEER 
cross You should cross the lake before nightfall. 
across a/the ~ A ferry takes people across the lake.
around/round a/the ~ We walked around the lake.
at a/the ~ We had a holiday at Lake Como.
in a/the ~ Carp live in the lake.
into a/the ~ She fell into the lake.
on a/the ~ We went boating on the lake a cottage on the lake 
the edge/middle/shores/side/surface of the lake There is a cafe on the other side of the lake. 
go His horse had gone lame.
dry It was good to be on dry land again after months at sea. 
reach The explorers reached land after a long voyage.
sight In the distance the crew sighted land.
reclaim The new project will reclaim the land from the sea. 
forces With the land forces defeated, everything now rested on the navy. 
by ~ It's impossible to reach this beach by land because of the high cliffs.
on ~ Some animals can live both on land and in water. 
arid, dry, hard, parched The land was very dry and hard after the long, hot summer.
derelict, waste (also wasteland) A new shopping centre will be built on the derelict land.
common This used to be common land, where everyone had the right to graze animals.
open They finally got out of the town and reached open land.
parcel, piece, plot, scrap, strip, tract Every scrap of land is used for growing food. The college owns vast tracts of land. 
have, hold, own The inhabitants of a village held land in common.
clear The land has been cleared ready for building.
develop They were refused permission to develop the land.
occupy During the war their lands were occupied by the enemy.
grant sb He was 
live off It's very fertile countryside where you can just live off the land.
farm, work (on) His family had always worked the land.
leave Many people leave the land to find work in towns and cities.
get/go back to He's tired of living in cities, and wants to get back to the land. 
distant He travelled to many distant lands.
alien, foreign, strange She was all alone in a strange land.
cloud cuckoo, never-never (both figurative) Anyone who thinks this legislation will be effective is living in cloud cuckoo land. 
make The pilot had to make an emergency landing in a field. 
off the ~ The room opens off the landing.
on the ~ There's a phone on the landing outside your room. 
familiar After twenty years, all the familiar landmarks had disappeared.
for The tower was once a landmark for ships. 
be, represent The Russian Revolution represents a landmark in world history. 
in The film is an important landmark in the history of the cinema. 
cause The floods caused a landslide. 
destroy sth The village was destroyed by a landslide. 
electoral Nobody predicted such an electoral landslide.
Conservative, Labour, etc. 
win by The National Party won by a landslide. 
first, native She grew up in Spain, so her first language is Spanish.
foreign, second How many foreign languages does she speak? the teaching of English as a second language
original Most local cinemas show films in the original language, with German subtitles.
ancient, classical, dead Latin is a dead language.
official Belgium has two official languages.
national Portuguese is the national language of Brazil.
minority Some minority languages are dying out.
spoken, written She could speak some Chinese, but never studied the written language.
sign Not all deaf people use sign language.
body, non-verbal You could tell from his body language that he was very embarrassed.
in … ~ His letter was couched in very formal language. 
command/knowledge/mastery of (a) language Her command of language is very advanced for a six-year-old.
use of language The writer's use of language reflects the personality of each character. 
mind, watch The referee warned the players to mind their language. > Note at LANGUAGE 
record He set a new lap record. 
on the … ~ He tripped and fell on the final lap. 
a lap of honour The silver medallist joined the winner in a lap of honour. 
be pinned to A silver brooch was pinned to her lapel. 
in the/your ~ He was wearing a carnation in his lapel.
grab sb by the lapels He grabbed her by the lapels and shook her violently. 
empty, raid He comes home from school and raids the larder. 
in the ~ There wasn't much food left in the larder. 
long Your car will last longer if you look after it.
forever, indefinitely Nothing lasts forever. 
never Happiness never lasts. 
can/cannot, could (not) The storm could last quite a long time.
will/won't, would (not) The kids are all very enthusiastic, but it won't last?it never does.
be likely/unlikely to I always thought his popularity was unlikely to last.
seem to The journey seemed to last forever.
be built to This house was built to last. 
for The war lasted for three years.
into The celebrations lasted well into the next week.
until The trial is expected to last until the end of the week. 
while sth lasts Make the most of this feeling while it lasts. 
medieval > Note at LANGUAGE 
big, good, great The last joke got the biggest laugh.
bitter, brittle, cynical, derisive, dry, forced, hollow, humourless, mirthless, mocking, rueful, scornful She forced a humourless laugh.
give, let out, utter He gave a short, amused laugh.
enjoy, like He enjoys a good laugh.
get, raise Few of his jokes got a laugh. She got a laugh out of Jack.
escape sb A small laugh escaped her. 
for a ~ She dyed her hair green just for a laugh.
with a ~ He left the room with a cynical laugh.
~ about/at We all had a great laugh about it afterwards. 
be good for a laugh Paul's always good for a laugh (= always amusing).
have the last laugh We'll have the last laugh if she finds out that you're the one who played the trick.
a laugh at sb's expense Oh yes, very funny?have your laugh at my expense!
helpless, hysterical, loud, raucous, wild I heard sounds of raucous laughter upstairs.
infectious Her infectious laughter had everyone smiling.
silent, suppressed She was bent over with suppressed laughter.
bellow, hoot, howl, roar, shriek, snort He gave a sudden bellow of laughter.
fit Everyone dissolved into fits of laughter when they saw my haircut.
gale, peal, ripple His suggestion was greeted with peals of laughter. A ripple of laughter ran round the room. 
bundle, pile There was a pile of clean laundry on her bed. 
do The housekeeper cooks, does the laundry and cleans. 
service The hotel offers a free laundry service. 
become Parliament voted for the bill to become law.
enforce, uphold It's the job of the police to enforce the law.
interpret Judges interpret this law in different ways. 
allow sth, forbid sth, prohibit sth The law forbids gambling of any kind.
require sth The wearing of a crash helmet is required by law.
above the ~ No one is above the law.
against the ~ What you did was clearly against the law.
by ~ By law, you are obliged to install smoke alarms in the factory.
within the ~ The company is operating entirely within the law.
~ on A law on hunting will cause a lot of disagreements.
as the law stands As the law stands, you can get married while still too young to have a driving licence.
law and order Martial law was imposed to prevent the breakdown of law and order.
the letter of the law In spite of the difficulties it would cause her family, the judge stuck to the letter of the law and jailed her.
take the law into your own hands When police failed to arrest the suspect, local people took the law into their own hands and beat him up. 
firm > Note at SUBJECT(for more verbs and nouns) 
cut, mow, trim The lawn really needs mowing. 
a sweep of lawn The cottage sits on a hill above a sweep of lawn. 
civil, civil rights, commercial, constitutional, criminal, divorce, human rights, libel, personal injury > Note at PROFESSIONAL(for verbs) 
in a/the ~ I was parked in a lay-by, having a nap. 
basic, general Before designing the house we planned the basic layout of the rooms.
give, take The government should give a lead in tackling racism.
in We should follow their lead in banning chemical weapons. 
be in, have She has a narrow lead over the other runners.
go into, move into, take They took an early lead.
build up, establish The team has now built up a commanding lead.
regain They regained the lead with only a few minutes left to play.
extend, increase Sheffield increased their lead just before half time.
~ over This win gives the team a two-point lead over their closest rival. 
play Her big break came when she was chosen to play the lead in a Broadway musical. 
possible The police are following every possible lead. 
clear, effective, firm, outstanding, real, strong He was praised for his firm leadership.
deputy He is standing in the deputy leadership election.
Conservative, Labour, etc.
cultural, industrial, intellectual, military, moral, political, spiritual Political leadership needs a particular combination of skills.
assume, take on/over When Smith died, Blair took over the leadership of the party.
exercise, provide, show In the crisis he showed real leadership. 
qualities, skills He lacks leadership qualities. 
under sb's ~ The school has flourished under the leadership of Mr Buxton.
~ from What is really needed is clear leadership from the prime minister.
~ in Leadership in science now went to the United States. 
a challenge to sb's leadership She withstood several challenges to her leadership.
issue, produce, publish The Health Council issued hundreds of leaflets.
deliver, distribute, give out, hand out, send out Campaigners handed out leaflets to passers by.
enclose I enclose a leaflet about some of the other services we offer. 
in a/the ~ More details are given in our promotional leaflet. 
have The boat had a small leak.
spring The pipe has sprung a leak.
plug, stop I managed to plug the leak. 
cause The dismantling of a nuclear reprocessing plant caused a leak of radioactivity yesterday.
detect, discover, find, notice, spot Fortunately, we spotted the leak in time.
fix, repair, stop The plumber fixed the leak.
from Pollution inspectors were called to a leak from a chemical factory.
come from sth The leak could only have come from one source. 
~ to a leak to the American authorities 
the source of a leak The organization's press secretary is thought to be the source of the leak. 
close, near He leaned closer, lowering his voice.
across, forward, down, out, over She leant forward eagerly to listen to him.
away, back, backwards He leaned back in his chair.
across She was leaning confidentially across the table.
against She leaned her head against his shoulder.
into He leaned into the open doorway.
on The old man was leaning heavily on a stick.
out of She leaned precariously out of the window.
over She leaned casually over the railings.
through The taxi driver leaned through his window.
towards He leaned towards her. PHRASAL VERBS lean on sb/sth 
heavily Britain leans heavily on Europe for trade. 
almost, nearly He almost leaped down the stairs when he heard who it was.
clear, high She leaped clear of the water.
seem to (figurative) The photograph seemed to leap off the page at her.
be about to, be ready to Don't be so nervous?anyone would think I was about to leap on you. 
from He leaped down from the ladder and ran over towards her.
into, off, on, onto He leaped onto his horse and rode off.
out of He leaped out of bed when he heard the telephone.
leap to your feet Rosie immediately leaped to her feet. 
quick, slow She was a quick learner, and her German got better by the day.
advanced, intermediate a book for advanced learners of English
young The book has been written with the interests of young learners in mind.
have, hold They've got a lease with five years to run.
acquire, buy, enter into, get, negotiate, obtain, sign, take (on/out/up) She has taken out a new ten-year lease on the flat.
grant (sb), sell (sb) A freeholder may grant a lease of any duration.
forfeit, surrender They moved out and the lease was surrendered.
run The lease runs from April 19.
on a ~ The company holds the building on a long lease.
under a/the ~ Under the new lease, the rent would go up.
~ of He took a lease of the premises.
~ on The club has a 20-year lease on the property. 
be entitled to, get, have How much annual leave do you get? I've still got some leave left this year.
go on, spend, take, use (up) She spent most of her leave with her family. I've still got some leave to use up.
save I'm saving all my leave to have a long holiday later in the year.
cancel When the war broke out all leave was cancelled.
on ~ She's on leave until the end of the month. 
ask, request He asked leave to absent himself for four days.
by sb's ~ The appeal can only be brought by leave of the trial judge.
with/without sb's ~ No application may be made without the leave of the court. 
guest A two-day event of guest lectures, seminars and workshops.
inaugural, introductory Professor Pearson gave the inaugural lecture in the new lecture theatre.
hold, put on The society is putting on a series of lectures on the subject next term.
at a/the ~ She wasn't at the lecture.
during a/the ~ The fire bell went during his lecture.
in a/the ~ She referred to Professor Jones's work in her lecture on Shakespeare's imagery.
~ by a lecture by Professor Snow
~ about/on, ~ to a lecture to the Darwin Society 
a lecture entitled sth a lecture entitled ‘How to Prevent Food Poisoning’
give sb, read sb She read me a stern lecture on ingratitude.
get I got a lecture from Dad about coming home on time.
about/on I don't take lectures from anyone on how to behave.
cling to The climbers were clinging to a ledge hundreds of feet above the sea.
go, run A narrow ledge runs across the northern face of the cliff. 
along a/the ~ I felt along the ledge at the top of the door.
on a/the ~ The phone was perched precariously on the window ledge. 
lame, withered He sat down with his lame leg outstretched.
tired She crossed the finish line on tired legs.
fresh They don't train the day before a match to ensure they have fresh legs.
brace He put his back against the car, braced his legs and pushed.
cross I moved the chair away from the table so I could cross my legs.
splay, spread They made him put his hands on the police car and spread his legs.
extend, stretch (out) She stretched her legs under the table. (figurative) It was good to get out of the car and stretch our legs (= walk about).
lift The dog lifted its leg against the lamp post.
draw up, tuck under She sat with her legs drawn up underneath her.
swing She swung her legs over the side of the bed and reached for her crutches.
entwine, tangle They gazed at each other, their legs entwined under the table.
amputate She had her leg amputated below the knee.
move They ran together, their legs moving in unison.
flail, kick He jumped to avoid the flailing leg of the defender.
pump She started running, fat legs pumping.
buckle, give way His legs buckled and he collapsed on the floor.
dangle, hang, swing He sat with his legs dangling off the bridge.
room (also legroom) You don't get much legroom on economy-class flights. 
between the/your ~s The dog sloped off, its tail between its legs.
in the ~ He was shot in the leg by a sniper.
on the/your ~ I've got a big bruise on my leg.
on one ~ Many birds are able to stand on one leg for hours at a time. 
have, etc.) your leg in plaster He was wheeled out of the hospital with his leg in plaster. 
pull up, roll up He rolled up his trouser legs.
long/short in the leg These jeans are too long in the leg. 
anchor The fastest runner often runs the anchor leg (= the last one) of a relay.
on the … ~ At last we were on the homeward leg of our journey. 
completely, perfectly It is perfectly legal to charge extra for these services. 
Greek, Roman, etc.
become, pass into The story of how she was rescued has already passed into legend.
tell (sb) He told us the legend of the ghostly horseman. 
live on The legend of his supernatural origins lives on. 
according to ~ According to ancient legend, the river is a goddess.
in (a/the) ~ There have always been stories of human giants in Celtic legend and mythology.
~ about legends about the Vikings
~ of The story is part of the ancient legend of King Arthur. 
legend has it that … Legend has it that the Bridge of Sighs got its name from the cries of prisoners being led across it.
myths and legends the myths and legends of Mexico
the subject of legend The unusual shell has long been the subject of legend. 
unworkable The police think that such legislation would be unworkable.
knee-jerk The terrorist attack prompted knee-jerk legislation.
call for, propose They are calling for tough legislation to tackle this problem.
bring forward, initiate Anyone has the right to initiate legislation in Parliament by means of a private bill.
approve, enact, introduce, pass Congress approved legislation which outlawed the sale of the drug.
adopt Member states may not adopt legislation contrary to EU law.
block, delay The reform will make it more difficult for MPs to block legislation.
comply with Companies have until December 31 to comply with the new legislation. 
come into effect, come into force New legislation on drink-driving comes into effect at the end of the year. 
under ~ This will be a criminal offence under the new legislation.
~ against They are planning the introduction of legislation against sex discrimination.
~ on Legislation on this issue is urgently needed. 
slice, wedge Garnish the fish with wedges of lemon. 
squeeze Squeeze a quarter of a lemon over the fish.
juice > Special page at FRUIT 
big, large, leading, major The bank is the largest mortgage lender in the country.
to The bank was an important lender to the British government. 
extremely, very Agreement was finally reached after very lengthy discussions.
fairly, quite, rather, reasonably, relatively, somewhat After a fairly lengthy delay, we were able to continue. 
excessively, unduly The appeal judge agreed that the original sentence was unduly lenient. 
with The police are sometimes more lenient with female offenders. 
patient, sufferer, victim > Special page at ILLNESS 
considerably, greatly, significantly Eating a good diet significantly lessens the risk of heart disease.
gradually Time had gradually lessened the pain of her grief. 
begin to The noise began to lessen.
tend to Too much background detail tends to lessen the impact of the central image.
help (to) Regular exercise can help to lessen the pain. 
absolutely All these knives are absolutely lethal.
potentially It was a potentially lethal mixture of drugs. 
to The pesticide is lethal to all insect life. 
countless, endless, numerous She received countless letters of support while in jail.
occasional Apart from the occasional letter, they had not been in touch for years.
incoming The porter distributes incoming letters to the offices.
open, public The editor published an open letter to the prime minister.
accompanying, covering, explanatory The conditions are explained in the accompanying letter. Send your CV with a covering letter.
thank-you I wrote my uncle a thank-you letter as soon as I opened the present.
rejection I've had job interviews and received ten rejection letters.
heartfelt, impassioned She wrote an impassioned letter to her local newspaper to complain about the new road.
poison pen He had been sending poison pen letters to his neighbours, hoping to make them move away. 
get, have, receive I haven't had a letter from her for ages.
forward The letter was forwarded from my old address.
acknowledge, answer, reply to, respond to I was angry that they didn't even acknowledge my letter.
address The letter was addressed to me.
publish The newspaper refused to publish the letter. 
arrive, come, reach sb I hope my last letter has reached you.
be dated … The letter is dated 7 July.
cross Our letters crossed in the post.
announce sth, ask (sb) sth, begin, start (off) The letter started off by thanking us for our offer.
continue, go on His letter wen
conclude, end The letter concluded with a threat of possible legal action.
contain sth The letter contained information that only the killer could know.
enclose sth The charity received an anonymous letter enclosing a large cheque.
appear A letter headed ‘Advertising Mania’ appeared in the paper. 
box The postman put a bundle of letters through the letter 
by ~ Please reply by letter.
in a/the ~ In your letter of 5 June …
block, capital, upper-case Fill in the form in block letters.
initial The company's name is made from the initial letters of his children's names.
double Words with double letters, such as ‘accommodation’, are commonly misspelt.
in … ~s His name was written in large white letters over the doorway. 
cluster The newspapers are full of stories of leukaemia clusters near nuclear establishments. > Special page at ILLNESS 
high, record, significant, substantial Industrial output has reached record levels.
excessive Excessive levels of lead were found in the water.
acceptable, adequate, necessary, normal, realistic, reasonable, safe an acceptable level of risk Her blood pressure has returned to its normal level.
achieve, reach They have achieved higher levels of efficiency. Crime has reached its highest level ever.
remain at She predicts that fuel prices will remain at current levels.
set Emissions are well below the levels set by the World Health Authority.
exceed There will be stiff penalties if companies exceed these levels of pollution. 
above a/the ~ Mortgage rates were 10% above their current level.
at a/the ~ Rents will be kept at this level for another year.
below a/the ~ Radiation is well below the permitted level. 
basic, elementary, low The teaching is at quite a basic level.
entry They have a good range of entry-level computers for beginners.
advanced, high Her illness has reached an advanced level.
difficulty The difficulty level of the exercises in the book varies widely.
complete, do, take You need to do all three levels to qualify as a canteen supervisor. 
above a/the ~ His English is way above the level of the other students.
at a/the ~ students at intermediate level She has played tennis at a high level.
below a/the ~ The book is not suitable for students below degree level. 
grass-roots The party needs to win support at grass-roots level.
board These decisions are made at board level. 
reach, rise to He rose to the level of general manager. 
at a/the ~ At the local level there's a lot to be said for the plan.
on a/the ~ The thing has got to be organized on an international level. 
conscious, unconscious At a conscious level, I was quite satisfied with my life.
detailed We probably need to look at this problem at a more detailed level.
at a/the ~, on a/the ~ On a superficial level everything appears to be in order, but at a deeper level you an see that there's a lot wrong. 
adjust, change, lower, raise They are going to raise the level of the banks to prevent flooding. 
at a/the ~ The plane was flying at a very low level.
on a ~ with On the second floor you are on a level with the treetops.
to a/the ~ The water rose to the level of the ground floor windows. 
on a/the ~ Are we on the right level for the restaurant?
to a/the ~ Take the lift to Level Four. 
have He tried to push the door open, but he didn't have sufficient leverage.
apply, exert Position the piece of wood so that maximum leverage can be applied.
gain They are determined to gain more political leverage.
make sb, render sb Failure to provide insurance rendered him liable to prosecution.
find sb, hold sb They could be found liable for the entire amount. 
jointly, severally (law) Partners are jointly and severally (= together and individually) liable for a partnership's debts.
vicariously Under this rule, if Y is employed by X, X will be vicariously liable for the actions of Y.
for She's fully liable for the company's debts. 
maintain We maintained a close liaison with the trade union.
establish We are hoping to establish better customer liaison.
in ~ with It's important that we work in close liaison with other charities in this field.
~ with She is responsible for liaison with researchers at other universities. 
have She was having a romantic liaison with her husband's best friend.
against He has issued a writ for libel against the radio star Michael Clery. > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
a feeling/sense of liberation Up in the mountains we had the most wonderful sense of liberation.
college, school, university > Note at JOB(for verbs) 
export, gaming, import, operating, trade, trading The government is currently granting no operating licences to foreig
television/TV
software, user The CD-ROM comes with a single-user licence.
entertainment, music The bar was refused a music licence.
have, hold You have to have a licence to sell beer. Applicants must hold a valid driving licence.
buy, gain, get, obtain, win You can buy a TV licence at the post office. She gained her private pilot's licence. I got my driving licence when I was eighteen. The company has won the licence to run trains from the south coast to London.
revoke, take away He's had his licence taken away.
lose She lost her driving licence when she was caught drink-driving. 
expire, run out The licence expires at the end of the year. 
in a/the ~ All these details are specified in the licence.
under a/the ~ The weapons were exported under a special export licence.
under ~ They are Italian trains, but they will be built in Britain under licence.
~ from a licence from the Performing Rights Society 
big, monstrous, (whopping) great He told a whopping great lie!
complete, downright, outright That's a downright lie!
white A little white lie is surely excusable.
believe, swallow How could she swallow such a blatant lie?
live He lived a lie for thirty years, pretending to be the faithful husband of two different women living in two different towns. 
get into, man, take to The crew took to the lifeboats.
call out The lifeboat was called out five times in the January storms.
be stationed … The lifeboat is stationed just along the coast from here. 
in/on a/the ~ There was only room for ten people in the lifeboat. 
catch, cling to He clung to the lifeline and the woman pulled him towards the bank. 
real, vital Visits from loved ones are a vital lifeline for prisoners.
financial The state pension is their financial lifeline. 
give sb, hold out, offer (sb), provide (sb with), throw sb (out) The organization provides a real lifeline for many women in poverty. He threw me a lifeline when he offered me a job.
have With this one unexpected victory, the club now has a lifeline. 
short A lifetime is too short for all the great books there are!
devote, spend He devoted a lifetime to working with disabled children.
take (sb) It took a whole lifetime to solve the mystery of her father's disappearance.
last (sb) This watch should last you a lifetime.
seem (like) It seems a lifetime since we first met. 
achievement The veteran director won a lifetime achievement award.
employment, income Payments are based on expected lifetime income.
after a ~ After a lifetime as a journalist in the troublespots of the world, he retired to the country.
during your ~ I've seen many changes during my lifetime.
in your ~ The artist was little known in his lifetime.
of a ~ It was the holiday of a lifetime!
~ in She spent a lifetime in politics.
the habits of a lifetime It's hard to break the habits of a lifetime.
half a lifetime, a legend in your own lifetime Herbert von Karajan was a legend in his own lifetime.
a lifetime ago/away University seems a half a lifetime away.
once in a lifetime That sort of thing happens only once in a lifetime. 
almost, half Her hugged her, almost lifting her off the ground.
sharply Her head lifted sharply
carefully, gently, gingerly Carefully lift the cake off the tray and cool on a wire rack.
bodily She was lifted bodily aboard by two sailors.
back, down, out, up She lifted back the sheet. 
can/could barely/hardly The box was so heavy I could barely lift it.
above He stood, legs apart, arms lifted above his head.
down She leaned on him and he half lifted her down the stairs.
from He felt as if an enormous weight had been lifted from his shoulders.
into The heavy beams were lifted into place.
off She lifted the book up off the table.
out of He lifted the baby out of its cot.
over She lifted the child over the fence.
to Juliet nodded, lifting her face to David's. 
partially The police managed to restore calm and the curfew was partially lifted. 
agree to, decide to, vote to The government decided to lift the ban on arms exports.
full In full light, you could see Alison was well over forty.
failing We could hardly see the ball in the failing light.
burst, flash, gleam, glimmer There was a flash of light followed by an explosion.
have Have you got enough light for reading?
come, fall, pour Light from a tall lamp fell in a pool on the desk.
reflect The light reflecting off the snow was dazzling.
blind sb, dazzle sb We were momentarily blinded by the light of the sun.
catch sth You could see the imperfections in the repair when the light caught it. 
against the ~ She held up the letter against the light.
by the ~ of They managed to see where the door was by the light of the moon.
into the ~ Bring it into the light and we'll have a look at it.
in the ~ The place looked calm in the golden evening light.
at) the speed of light Nothing can travel faster than the speed of light.
a point of light, a source of light The lamp was the only source of light in the room. 
hazard, security, warning The car was stopped at the side of the road 
have on Some cars already had their lights on.
shine Someone shone a light in my face.
flash He flashed his lights to warn the oncoming cars. 
come on The warning light came on.
flash The blue light was flashing.
flicker The light flickered a couple of times then went out.
fitting > See TRAFFIC LIGHT 
flick He flicked his lighter but it didn't catch. 
emergency The generator supplies emergency lighting.
have The kitchen hasn't really got adequate lighting.
enormously, a lot, particularly, really I liked him enormously and was sorry when he left. I really like that restaurant.
best, better Which story do you like best?
always, never I have always liked Sue and I don't intend to stop now. 
get to I hope you will get to like our town. 
every There's every likelihood that she'll be able to help us.
decrease, minimize, reduce Taking regular exercise reduces the likelihood of a heart attack.
affect This shouldn't affect the likelihood of you getting the job. 
of Is their any likelihood of our getting our money back? 
in all likelihood In all likelihood, he'll be fit to play on Saturday. 
strong The children all share a strong family likeness.
superficial There's a superficial likeness, but they're really very different.
bear, show She bears a remarkable likeness to her grandmother. 
between I can't see any likeness between her children.
stiff I eased my stiff limbs into the hot bath.
hind The animal is able to stand up on its hind limbs. 
grab, hog, steal She accused her co-star of trying to hog the limelight.
in the ~ She likes being in the limelight.
out of the ~ The band started touring again after two years out of the limelight. 
be designed to The change in the law was designed to limit the scope for corruption.
serve to, tend to Rigid job descriptions can serve to limit productivity. 
to The teaching of history should not be limited to dates and figures. 
decidedly, distinctly, extremely, highly, really, remarkably, seriously, severely, sharply, strictly, very Places are strictly limited, so you should apply as soon as possible.
socially The role that women could play was socially limited. 
in We're really limited in what we can do these days.
to The number of passengers is limited to fifteen. 
be, feel, hang, lie, look, seem His arm hung limp at his side. Her hair looked limp and lifeless.
become, go, grow Her body suddenly went limp. 
badly, heavily He had hurt his leg and was limping badly.
along, away, off He limped away from his car. 
deeply, heavily Her deeply lined face was creased into a smile 
fully The coat is fully lined. 
with The case was lined with black velvet. 
Saussurean > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
directly, explicitly Diseases that can be directly linked to pollution.
indissolubly, inescapably, inevitably, inexorably, inextricably, inseparably Poverty and crime are inextricably linked.
romantically She has never been romantically linked with anyone.
in some way, somehow I could not help feeling that these factors were somehow linked.
together, up The two spacecraft will link up in orbit. 
into The computers are linked into a network.
to Scientists have linked the illness to the use of pesticides.
with the road that links Cairo with Alexandria 
bite, chew He bit his lip nervously, trying not to cry.
press together, purse She pursed her lips in disapproval.
lick, smack He licked his lips hungrily.
moisten He nervously moistened his lips with his tongue. 
move, part Her lips parted with a cry of fear.
curl His lips curled contemptuously.
pout The firm lips pouted in a sulk.
around/round your ~ He ran his tongue round his lips.
on your ~ There was a slight smile on her lips. 
empty, pour Empty the liquid into a large bowl.
drain (off), pour off, strain (off) Drain off the liquid from the meat into a measuring jug.
reduce Reduce the liquid by boiling for two minutes.
refreshment (informal) After two hours of the meeting we stopped for liquid refreshment.
in liquid form The medicine is usually taken in liquid form. 
alcoholic, hard, intoxicating, strong It is an offence to sell intoxicating liquor to anyone under the age of 18. 
licence The restaurant finally obtained a liquor licence. 
attentively, carefully, closely, hard, intently Now, listen very carefully to what she says.
half Lucy was only half listening to their conversation.
patiently, politely, sympathetically We listened politely to his stories.
avidly, eagerly, with interest The guests were listening with great interest.
gravely, impassively Pym listened impassively until the woman had finished.
in silence, quietly They listened to the announcement in silence.
not) want to, will/would (not) Nobody will listen to me! I tried to warn her, but she wouldn't listen.
refuse to He refused to listen to her explanation. 
for We listened anxiously for the sound of footsteps.
listen with half an ear I listened with half an ear to the conversation at the next table. 
basic All the children are tested in basic literacy.
about I picked up some literature about pensions.
~ on There's an extensive literature on the subject. 
appear, be, play He appeared live on the Song and Dance Show. Is the show live or recorded? The band have never played this song live before.
come to sb, go out This programme comes to you live from the Albert Hall. In those days the broadcasts all went out live.
be broadcast, be screened, be shown, be televised, be transmitted The match will be televised live this evening.
be recorded The CD was recorded live at a concert given last year. 
affect, threaten The new law threatens the livelihood of thousands of farmers.
a means/source of livelihood The boat was his main source of livelihood. 
comfortable, decent, good He makes a good living as a builder.
meagre She eked out a meagre living as an artist's model. 
earn, make Her dream was to earn her living as a singer.
eke out, scrape (together), scratch They were forced to scrape a living by selling things on the streets.
do sth for He asked what I did for a living. 
with The lorry was loaded with crates of beer. 
emotionally, ideologically, politically Try to avoid politically loaded terms like ‘nation’. 
against The odds were slightly loaded against us.
in favour of The legislation is heavily loaded in favour of employers. 
secured, unsecured As it was an unsecured loan, their property was not at risk.
outstanding They used the inheritance to pay off their outstanding loan.
arrange, get, raise, take out She had to take out a bridging loan until she could sell her house.
give sb, grant sb, make sb My bank manager offered to make me a loan.
repayment They were struggling to meet their monthly loan repayments.
facility, service The bank provides personal loan facilities at competitive rates.
period The book must be returned by the end of the loan period.
shark He ran up massive debts borrowing from loan sharks. 
on ~ (from) The paintings are on loan from the Wallace Collection.
give sb/have the loan of sth He's given us the loan of his car for the weekend.
security against/for a loan He had to use his house as security for the loan. > Special page at BUSINESS 
against Many groups have together mounted a lobby against cuts in hospitals.
~ for Villagers have organized a lobby for improved local facilities. 
accurately, precisely The machine can accurately locate radioactive material.
be able/unable to, can/could We haven't yet been able to locate a suitable site.
be easy to Some stars are quite easy to locate with a telescope.
centrally The hotel is centrally located between Dam Square and Central Station.
physically Two people can meet in virtual reality even if physically located in different continents.
at, between, close to, in, on, near, outside, within, etc. Your accommodation is conveniently located within walking distance of the town centre. 
hubb, combination, lever, mortise, Yale
fit We had new locks fitted after the burglary.
turn He turned the lock and pushed the door open. 
insert/turn the key in the lock, (keep sb/sth) under lock and key Prisoners are kept under lock and key 24 hours a day. 
stray She flicked a stray lock of hair off her face.
flowing She had long flowing locks and blue eyes. 
apply, use Philosophers use logic to prove their arguments. 
compelling, exquisite, impeccable, inexorable There is a compelling logic to his main theory.
commercial, economic, political, scientific There is sound commercial logic in never giving credit to retailers. 
accept, follow, understand I can't follow the logic of what you are saying.
defy It's a stupid decision that completely defies logic.
apply, use You can't use the same logic in dealing with children. 
behind What's the logic behind this decision?
~ in There doesn't seem to be any logic in the move. 
distinctive The company has a distinctive logo that makes it well known.
bear, carry, display, feature The diary features the organization's distinctive new logo.
unveil The new logo was unveiled in a blaze of publicity. 
for the logo for the World Cup 
desperately, extremely, terribly, unbearably, very She was desperately lonely at school.
oddly She felt oddly lonely without her books. 
desperately He longed desperately to be back at home.
secretly They were the words she had secretly longed to hear.
always She had always longed to go abroad. 
for He hated the city and longed for the mountains. 
at (a) ~ The town is at longitude 28° west. 
a line of longitude This line of longitude cuts through the jungle. 
go to, use Can I use your loo?
be desperate for, need We got stuck in a traffic jam and I was desperate for the loo.
flush, flush sth down He flushed the letter down the loo. 
carefully, closely Look at the machine quite carefully before you buy it.
sharply She looked up at me sharply when I said that.
enviously, longingly He looked longingly at the food on the table.
studiously He was looking studiously down to avoid meeting her eyes.
across, away, down, over, round, up She looked over to where the others were chatting. 
turn to He turned to look as she came down the stairs.
let sb ‘It's beautiful!’ ‘Oh! Let me look!’ 
at What are you looking at?
towards She looked towards the door. 
look and see I'll look and see if I've got any sugar in the cupboard. 
make sb/sth You made me look a complete fool! 
to It looks to me as if the company is in real trouble. 
exploit, use People who don't want to pay tax will exploit any loophole.
rule sb/sth > Note at PEER 
be going to, be likely to, stand to The company stands to lose financially if this deal falls through.
have nothing to You have nothing to lose by telling the truth.
cannot/could not afford to We cannot afford to lose any more senior members of staff.
cannot/could not afford to This is a game that Lazio cannot afford to lose. 
against We lost against Leeds.
by We lost by five goals to two.
to The visiting side lost to the home team. 
win or lose Win or lose, the important thing is to remain calm. PHRASAL VERBS lose out 
on Many of the canal children were constantly on the move, and lost out on regular schooling.
to Our firm lost out to a larger company that could offer a lower price. 
appreciable, dramatic, great, major, serious, significant, substantial, tremendous The ship sank with great loss of life. She suffered a significant loss of hearing after the operation.
sad His death is a sad loss to all who knew him.
blood, hair, hearing, weight Weight loss can be a sign of a serious illness.
job The company is expected to announce 200 job losses. 
mourn China mourned the loss of a great leader. 
no great loss She wouldn't be able to attend the lecture, which was no great loss.
a sense of loss She was filled with an overwhelming sense of loss. 
incur, make, suffer, sustain There's no way you can make a loss on this deal. The business sustained losses of £20 million.
cut, minimize He decided to cut his losses and sell the shares before they sank further.
recoup, recover It took the firm five years to recoup its losses.
offset We can offset the loss against next year's budget.
underwrite No bank would be willing to underwrite such a loss. 
at a ~ The bookshop was operating at a loss.
~ on We made a net loss on the transaction. 
big, great, heavy, severe The enemy suffered heavy losses. 
inflict Fighter planes inflicted heavy losses on the enemy. 
whole She bought the whole lot. 
awful I've got an awful lot of work to do before I go on holiday. 
empty, vacant He parked his caravan on a vacant lot. 
have, hold We're having a lottery to raise money for homeless families.
raise sth The lottery has raised millions of pounds. 
in a/the ~ I won my car in a lottery
on the ~ A couple have scooped £10 million on the national lottery. 
broadcast sth Loudspeakers broadcast the football results. 
from a/the ~ Christmas songs blared from loudspeakers.
over a/the ~ We heard the news over the loudspeaker.
through a/the ~ A woman was addressing the crowd through a loudspeaker. 
abiding, eternal, undying He had an abiding love of the English countryside. You have my undying love.
free They were into free love and avoided commitment.
first I like most sports but tennis is my first love.
courtly, platonic, romantic the cult of courtly love in twelfth-century Aquitaine
feel, have She felt no love for him. He had a great love of life.
find At last she had found true love.
declare, profess They publicly declared their love for each other.
promise ‘You promised me love!’ he cried despairingly.
return He didn't return her love.
share They share a love of music.
give sb, send (sb) Bob sends his love.
be in, fall in He fell in love with one of his students.
make (= have sex) It was the first time they had made love. He wanted to make love to her. 
for/out of ~ I did it for love!
in ~ We are very much in love.
~ for He did not know how to express his love for her.
~ of She had a great love of painting. 
an act of love, deeply/madly/passionately in love I was madly in love with her.
desperately/hopelessly in love, head over heels in love, love at first sight Do you believe in love at first sight?
the love of sb's life She was the love of his life. 
be, feel, look, sound The cool water felt lovely after being in the hot sun. Your idea of a day on the beach sounds lovely. 
breathtakingly, particularly, really, very She looked really lovely in the blue dress.
absolutely, perfectly, quite, utterly, wholly She's got an absolutely lovely face.
be, look, seem The windows look very low to me. 
extremely, very The river was extremely low for winter.
become, get, run Our stocks of food were getting low. Supplies ran low.
keep sth The government wants to keep taxes low. 
extremely, very The failure rate is extremely low.
in This dish is very low in fat. 
hastily, quickly Christina blushed and hastily lowered her eyes.
into She lowered herself into the driver's seat.
onto He carefully lowered the sleeping child onto the bed.
to She lowered herself down to the floor. 
to The troops remained loyal to the president. 
pure, sheer It was sheer luck that we met like that.
bad, ill, rotten, tough It was rotten luck to be ill on the day of the interview. 
piece, stroke By a stroke of luck I came across it in a local bookshop. 
bring (sb), give sb This ring has always brought me good luck.
try I decided to try my luck at the roulette wheel. 
run out It looks as though our luck's finally run out.
hold If our luck holds, we should win.
improve, turn He went on gambling, sure his luck was about to turn. 
by … ~ By ill luck, my flight had been cancelled.
for ~ I always carry it with me, just for luck.
in ~ You're in luck?there are just two tickets left.
out of ~ I had hoped there would be another train, but I was out of luck.
with ~ With luck, we'll get there before it closes. 
beginner's luck I don't know why I did so well?it must be beginner's luck.
better luck next time If you didn't win a prize, better luck next time.
can't believe your luck He couldn't believe his luck when the other candidate for the job withdrew.
just my luck Just my luck to get the broken chair! 
item, piece You are only allowed one piece of hand luggage. 
check in They like you to check your luggage in an hour before the flight.
load, pack, unload She packed all the luggage into the boot of the car. 
in your ~ I always carry a first-aid kit in my luggage. 
during a/the ~ They crossed the road during a lull in the traffic.
small Stir the sauce to remove any small lumps.
painful He's developed a painful lump on his neck.
breast She's just had a breast lump removed. 
feel She felt a lump in her breast. 
sandwich We went for a sandwich lunch at the local bar.
Sunday
annual The society's annual lunch will be held next Wednesday.
things I helped wash up the lunch things.
a spot of lunch Come and have a spot of lunch with me. > Note at MEAL(for verbs) 
fill, refill I opened the window and filled my lungs with cool fresh air.
clear, empty Coughing clears the lungs of mucus.
block, choke, clog The smoke was beginning to choke her lungs.
enter Water had entered his lungs and he was choking.
fill I let my lungs fill with the scented air.
burst (figurative) Lungs bursting, she flew across the finish line. 
into the ~ These particles are breathed into the lungs.
on the ~ He had blood clots on the lung. 
give Her heart gave a little lurch when she saw him.
feel John felt a lurch of dismay. 
with a ~ The train stopped with a lurch.
~ into Starting her own business was a lurch into the unknown. 
resist She can't resist the lure of the bright lights.
feel He felt the lure of distant places. 
be, feel, look, seem The car felt luxurious. 
extremely, positively, very, wonderfully Camping these days can be positively luxurious.
become, wax He waxed lyrical about the variety of fish in the river. 
intensely, very There are some intensely lyrical passages in his first symphony.
almost She wrote an almost lyrical account of her childhood.
kidney, life-support The crash victim is now on a life-support machine. 
install We've had a new washing machine installed.
design The machine is designed to fit under a counter. 
go, work Have you got the machine working again?
run The machine runs on solar power. 
by The potatoes are planted by machine.
in a/the ~ Just put those clothes in the machine (= the washing machine).
on a/the ~ I make my own dresses on my sewing machine.
a make of machine What make of machine are they using? 
party, political The independent candidates did not have the support of a party machine.
a cog in the machine (figurative) Tired of being a tiny cog in a vast machine, he handed in his resignation.
a well-oiled machine (figurative) The department ran like a well-oiled machine since the reorganization. 
go He went mad and spent the rest of his life locked up in a mental hospital. The world had gone completely mad.
drive sb His experiences in the First World War drove him mad. The children are driving me mad!
consider sb, think sb Her colleagues thought her quite mad.
barking, (stark) raving What a barking mad idea! You must be stark raving mad to risk your money like that!
with I went mad with joy and danced a little jig. 
get I get so mad when people don't take me seriously.
make sb It makes me really mad when people waste food. 
at/with My mum's absolutely mad with me! 
rolled-up She hit him with a rolled-up magazine.
listings Check a listings magazine for what's on this weekend.
copy Why did you buy three copies of the same magazine?
leaf through, look at, read leafing through the magazines in the waiting room I never read magazines.
buy, get, subscribe to Which magazines do you get regularly? 
come out The magazine comes out once a month.
carry sth, feature sth, run sth The magazine carried an interview with the actor considered Hollywood's hottest property. 
almost Her beauty had an almost magical quality. 
act as/like The scent of flowers acts as a magnet to bees. 
for The place is a magnet for tourists. 
in ~ The effects were substantial in magnitude. 
of the first magnitude Stars of the first magnitude are visible to the naked eye. a disaster of the first magnitude
(by) an order of magnitude Her calculation was out by several orders of magnitude. 
internal If we want to send something to another department, we use the internal mail.
junk I throw junk mail straight in the bin without reading it.
hate He has received death threats and hate mail from angry fans.
forward, redirect We got the Post Office to redirect our mail when we moved.
collect The mail is collected twice a day.
sort The postcode allows the mail to be sorted automatically.
check She checked her mail before leaving the hotel.
come, go Has the mail come yet? 
order All our products are available by mail order.
by ~ Send it by first-class mail.
in the ~ My reply is in the mail. Is there anything interesting in the mail? 
free Why not join our free mailing list? 
on a/the ~ We're on the mailing list for the Film Centre.
cut sb/sth off from, exclude sb/sth from These teachers have been cut off from the mainstream of educational activity. 
in/within the ~ He was in the mainstream of British contemporary music.
into the ~ This technology was designed for specialists but is now starting to move into the mainstream.
out of/outside the ~ He drifted out of the mainstream of society. 
part of the mainstream This style of drama is not part of the mainstream. 
essential The power station has been shut down for essential maintenance.
easy The engine is designed for easy maintenance.
low, minimal This type of garden requires minimal maintenance.
carry out We carry out routine maintenance of the equipment.
service We provide a maintenance service on all our products.
arrears He was jailed for failing to pay maintenance arrears. 
in ~ He pays £1,000 a month in child maintenance. 
silent The march was by the silent majority who oppose terrorism. 
comprise, constitute, form, make up English speakers form the majority of the population. 
stake The French company holds a majority stake in the retail chain. 
in the ~ In the general population, right-handed people are in the majority. 
in the majority of cases In the vast majority of cases, customers get their money back. 
absolute, outright, overall Although they are the biggest single party, they don't have an outright majority.
working the first Labour government with a clear working majority in the House
Conservative, Labour, etc.
achieve, gain, get, secure, win They failed to win the requisite two-thirds majority.
by a ~ They won by a huge majority.
~ against Latest opinion polls have a comfortable majority against the reform.
~ in a majority in Parliament
~ in favour of Opinion polls indicated a two-thirds majority in favour of ratification of the treaty.
~ over He has a decisive majority over his main rivals. 
carry, transmit Malaria is transmitted by mosquitoes.
control, eradication > Special page at ILLNESS 
the male of the species The male of the species has more brightly-coloured feathers than the female. 
faintly, rather He gave a faintly malicious smile at her furious expression. 
nicely, perfectly/very well I can manage perfectly well on my own, thank you.
financially She was finding it difficult to manage financially. 
be able to, can/could Can you manage?
have to We'll just have to manage somehow.
on I don't know how they manage on only £50 a week.
without I can manage without a dishwasher. 
actively We will actively manage your portfolio to maximize the return on your investment.
sustainably All our tropical timber products come from sustainably managed sources. 
be difficult to The children were very difficult to manage.
learn (how) to You need to learn how to manage your time effectively. 
anger, anxiety, stress He's been sent on an anger management course to help him control his temper.
need The project needs stronger management.
be responsible for She is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company. 
in ~ She is now celebrating ten years in management.
under sb's ~ The club prospered under Ferguson's management. 
a board of management, under new management The restaurant is under new management. 
criticize The unions have criticized management over their handling of the dispute. 
level This decision should be taken at a higher management level. 
electoral It is undemocratic to govern an area without an electoral mandate. 
seek The party sought a mandate to reform the constitution.
run The mandate ran until 1947. 
in your ~ He failed in his mandate.
under a/the ~ They ruled the country under a United Nations mandate.
with a/the ~ The party was elected with a mandate to reduce the size of government.
without a ~ They accused him of acting without a mandate.
~ for She has received a clear mandate for educational reform.
~ from a mandate from the United Nations to govern the territory 
grow to, reach He grew from adolescence to young manhood.
prove It seemed they were fighting to prove their manhood. 
in ~ He began to go bald in early manhood. 
like a ~ He was driving like a maniac. 
onservative, Labour, etc.
party, party's We must all support the party manifesto.
pledge sth, promise sth The manifesto promised reform of the social security system.
in a/the ~ The policy is outlined in the party's election manifesto.
on a/the ~ Labour won the election on this manifesto.
political People think that the investigation was independent, but in fact a lot of political manipulation went on.
by ~ The government has disguised the true situation by clever manipulation of the figures. 
correct You are not approaching the problem in the correct manner.
appropriate, satisfactory I did my best to behave in the appropriate manner.
prudent, reasonable, responsible, safe, sensible Chemical waste must be disposed of in an environmentally-responsible manner.
arbitrary, haphazard Files have been stored in such a haphazard manner that they are impossible to find.
constructive, positive The dispute could have been handled in a more constructive manner.
suspicious He was behaving in a highly suspicious manner.
off-hand He answered in such an off-hand manner that I wondered if he'd misheard me.
businesslike, no-nonsense His no-nonsense manner gave him the reputation of being a good doctor.
authoritative The authoritative manner in which he talked concealed his ignorance.
bedside, telephone He's a good doctor with a sympathetic bedside manner. She has a very pleasant telephone manner. 
adopt He tends to adopt a condescending manner when talking to young women.
act in She accused the teacher of not acting in a professional manner. 
change His manner changed abruptly when he heard how much I wanted.
conceal sth Her brusque m
suggest sth He was not as loutish as his manner suggested. 
in a/the ~ The inspection was conducted in a thoroughly professional manner.
in the ~ of He lectured us in the manner of a headmaster.
in your ~ There was something in his manner that I found very irritating. 
in a timely manner All claims must be settled in a professional and timely 
beautiful, charming, excellent, good, impeccable, nice, perfect It's not good manners to stare at people.
table His children have no table manners. 
teach sb Didn't your parents teach you any manners?
forget I'm sorry, I was forgetting my manners. Can I offer you a drink? 
have the (good) manners to do sth He could at least have had the manners to answer my letter.
a lack of manners Her lack of manners is quite appalling. 
carry out, execute, perform The pilot has to carry out a series of complex manoeuvres.
strategic, tactical Her withdrawal from the contest was a tactical manoeuvre.
by a/the ~ By this manoeuvre, he hopes to gain an advantage at a later stage. 
freedom of manoeuvre The economic conditions are restricting the Chancellor's freedom of manoeuvre.
room for manoeuvre The government has very little room for manoeuvre on this issue. 
be/go on manoeuvres The unit is on manoeuvres in southern Italy. 
of the ancient manor of Tregarrick 
Elizabethan, Victorian, etc.
Beverly Hills, Hollywood, etc.
executive The rebels besieged the heavily-fortified executive mansion.
stand The historic mansion stands in 160 acres of parkland. 
come with The computer comes with a comprehensive owner's manual.
check, consult, look at, read Check your manual for details. 
according to the ~ According to the manual, the wires should be the other way round.
in a/the ~ What does it say in the manual?
the manufacturer's instructions The guarantee may be rendered invalid if the manufacturer's instructions are not followed. 
green A green manure is a crop grown mainly to improve soil fertility.
dig in, work in Work in plenty of well-rotted manure. 
quick (only used with the verb draw), rough, simple, sketch ‘How do you get there?’ ‘I'll draw you a quick map.’
road, street a street map of central London a road map of the British Isles
Ordnance Survey
read Are you any good at reading maps?
be marked on The museum is clearly marked on the map.
spread out, unfold We spread the map out on the floor.
off the ~ Our village is just off the map.
on a/the ~ The lane isn't on the map.
cool The hotel is traditionally furnished, with cool marble floors.
carve (sth from/in), make sth from/in/(out) of a statue of Cupid carved in black marble
inexorably (figurative) Time marches inexorably on and we still have not made a decision.
ahead, away, back, forward, off, on, out, over, past, up (and down) Craig marched up to the front door and rang the bell. Soldiers were marching up and down outside the government buildings. 
from, into, on The invading army marched on Rome.
out of So saying, she marched boldly out of the house.
through, to They marched all the way from London to Edinburgh.
on The demonstrators marched on the Italian embassy.
generous, wide Leave a generous margin on the left.
at the ~ Start writing at the left-hand margin.
in the ~ She scribbled notes in the margin. 
by a ~ She won by a clear margin.
~ over He had an 18-second margin over his nearest rival. 
by the largest/narrowest, etc. of margins He won by the narrowest of margins.
good, greater, wide Sales predictions are open to wide margins of error.
allow (sb/sth), give (sb/sth), leave, provide The device gives a greater margin of safety. 
for We have substantial reserves, which provide a good margin for uncertainties. 
a margin for/of error The schedule left no margin for error.
low, narrow, small, tight We're working to rather tight profit margins.
achieve, have These manufacturers have high gross margins.
improve, increase Higher productivity has enabled them to increase their profit margins.
cut, erode, reduce, squeeze Price rises have eroded profit margins. 
at a ~ They are operating at very low margins.
~ on They hope to improve their margins on computers. > Note at PERCENT (for more verbs) 
distinguishing, identifying Does he have any distinguishing marks?
get How did you get that mark on your shirt?
leave, make The dirty water left a mark round the side of the bath.
get off/out, remove I can't get the children's dirty fingermarks off the wall. 
come off/out These greasy marks just won't come out. 
on There were grubby marks on the wall. 
deep, indelible, permanent The experience left a deep mark on her memory.
of Such thoughtful behaviour is the mark of a true gentleman. 
full I got full marks for my homework.
pass What's the pass mark in maths?
take off She took off a mark for bad handwriting.
above … ~s, below … ~s If you get below 40 marks, you're not allowed to go up into the next class.
~ for You get two marks for each correct answer. a good mark for geography
~ out of How many marks out of ten would you give it? 
halfway We've reached the halfway mark in the show.
pass This year's sales figures have already passed the mark set last year.
at a/the ~ The river was at its low-water mark.
below the ~, up to the ~ (= as good as sb/sth should be) Your grammar is not quite up to the mark. 
find, hit The shot found its mark.
wide of the mark (figurative) Shock tactics often fall wide of their mark. 
especially, extremely, particularly, strongly, very There is a strongly marked difference between the two creatures.
heavily Most cranes lay two heavily marked eggs.
with These trout are beautifully marked with bright red spots. 
selectively The printer is being selectively marketed in a handful of countries. 
as It will be marketed as a tonic for the elderly.
through The product is being marketed through the existing sales force.
to The company is not actively marketing its products to schools. 
do The company has done some effective marketing of the new model.
in ~ She works in marketing.
through/with ~ We could get more sales through better marketing. 
sales and marketing > Special page at BUSINESS 
in a/the ~ The wedding reception was held in a marquee.
under a/the ~ The guests sat on a platform under a large marquee. 
broken, disastrous, failed, unhappy She was the child of a broken marriage.
have He had an unhappy marriage with an older woman.
save They are struggling to save their marriage for the children's sake. 
be over, break down/up, end, fall apart, fail Their marriage ended in divorce. 
market Daughters were expected to join their well-bred friends on the marriage market.
by/from a ~ She's his daughter by a previous marriage.
by ~ They are related by marriage.
in a/the ~ She was the dominant partner in the marriage.
~ between the marriage between John and Elizabeth
~ to/with her marriage to Jim 
hristian, Jewish, etc.
celebrate The marriage was celebrated in the cathedral. 
at a/the ~ She wanted to be present at the marriage of her grandson.
~ to Mr and Mrs Wall invite you to the marriage of their daughter Ann to Mr Thomas Lea. 
hope to, want to I don't want to marry Robert.
agree to, promise to He promised to marry her when he returned.
be going to, plan to Matt told me he was going to marry again. They plan to marry next year.
forbid sb to Duty forbade them to marry.
ask sb to He asked me to marry him but I said no. 
for He married her for love, not for money.
get married They are hoping to get married next year.
marry late/young People are marrying later these days.
Christian 
make sb Killing him would only make him a martyr. 
play Stop playing the martyr. 
bloody (taboo, ironic), really This is really marvellous news!
absolutely, quite, simply The food looks absolutely marvellous!
exclusively The ceremony is exclusively masculine.
typically That's a typically masculine attitude!
aggressively He has an aggressively masculine approach to these questions. 
tend to Wood stains provide good protection but tend to mask the natural grain of the wood. 
with She masked her anger with a smile. 
broad Their policies appeal to the broad mass of the population.
formless, shapeless When I washed the jumper, it just turned into a shapeless mass.
~es of (informal) There were masses of people at the concert. 
requiem, Sunday 
attend, go to, hear She never failed to attend Sunday Mass.
celebrate, offer, say The local priest celebrates Mass in the village church. 
for a requiem Mass for the sailors who drowned 
cardiac, heart They managed to revive the injured driver with cardiac massage. 
give sb The physiotherapist gave me a massage to ease the pain. 
parlour She went to the massage parlour for a full-body massage. 
political His political masters are all old right-wing politicians. 
of He wants to be master of his own destiny. 
acknowledged, great This portrait is the work of an acknowledged master. 
be a past master at/in/of sth (= to be very good at sth) He's a past master at delaying meetings. 
do, study for, take He did a Master's at Hull University.
get She got her Master's last year. 
in a Master's in politics 
great It's one of the greatest masterpieces of Western art.
be considered, be hailed as, be recognized as Within a week of publication, the novel was hailed as a masterpiece. 
by a masterpiece by Picasso
~ of a masterpiece of classical architecture > Note at ART 
well As a couple they are not very well matched (= they are not very suitable for each other).
not quite The room was full of old furniture that didn't quite match. 
to match I bought a duvet cover and some curtains to match. 
for The control group in the experiment was matched for age and sex.
to The aim of the competition is to match the quote to the person who said it. 
almost She found that his determination almost matched her own.
not quite Nothing quite matches the fine, subtle flavour of this cheese. 
be able/unable to The company was unable to match his current salary.
fail to Children can be made to suffer when they fail to match their parents' expectations. 
for No other rock band comes even close to matching them for dynamism or style. 
be equally/evenly/well matched The teams were very evenly matched.
up We have to match up the right pet with the right owner. 
to The available organs are carefully matched to people in need of transplants. 
raw Higher raw material costs have pushed up the price of many manufactured goods.
drawing, writing Prisoners were not allowed writing materials. 
length, piece, roll, scrap, strip A patchwork quilt is a good way of using up scraps of material. 
source The letter were used as source material in this new biography.
indecent, obscene, pornographic He was convicted of importing indecent material. 
collect, find, gather, get hold of He's collecting material for a new book on space travel. I can't find any relevant material on him in the library.
contain, include This new biography contains a wealth of previously unpublished material.
~ on original material on the First World War 
complicated Working out the quantities of the ingredients involved some complicated maths. 
problem The class were struggling to find the solution to a maths problem. > Note at SUBJECT 
a great deal, a lot, really These things matter a lot to young children.
hardly, little (formal), not much, scarcely She could find a job. It hardly mattered what.
not seem to Somehow it didn't seem to matter much any more. 
about It doesn't matter about the mess.
to It didn't matter to her that he was blind. 
great, growing, increasing I can see an increasing maturity in how she understands the world.
show She has shown great maturity in her behaviour this term.
grow in These latest paintings show how the artist has really grown in maturity.
full It can take years for these plants to reach full maturity.
approach, come to, grow to, reach The insects lay eggs when they approach maturity. 
apply, follow If you follow a few simple maxims, your business should be a success. 
ay noun > Note at MONTH 
find your way through He found his way through the complex maze of corridors. 
in a/the ~, through a/the ~ I followed him through a maze of narrow alleys.
~ of I was lost in a maze of passages. 
really, very I thought it was really mean of him not to let her use the car.
a bit, pretty, rather, slightly That was a pretty mean trick. He's rather mean when it comes to spending money on the children. 
to He's so mean to his mother!
with She's very mean with her money. 
almost, practically, virtually The phrase has become almost meaningless.
have All our children have had the measles.
vaccination, vaccine > Special page at ILLNESS 
directly Any type of data that could not be directly measured was rejected.
up We need to measure the room up for a new carpet. 
be able to, can/cannot You can now measure its length more accurately.
for She's being measured for her wedding outfit.
in Cloth is measured in metres. 
easily The policy's impact cannot be easily measured.
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to It is hard to measure the benefits to society of this scheme.
according to Is it really possible to measure the skills of such jobs according to objective standards?
against The school's performance is measured against a strict set of criteria.
by The policy's effectiveness cannot be measured by numbers alone.
in terms of Success cannot be measured merely in terms of the size of your salary. 
bad, rancid, rotten That meat smells rotten.
tender Simmer the meat for 30 minutes until tender.
cut, joint She always buys the cheaper cuts of meat. 
consume, eat The animals do not hunt and rarely consume meat. Do you eat meat?
barbecue, cook, fry, grill, roast, stew Fry the meat in a little olive oil.
seal Turn the meat frequently to seal it.
be/go off, rot The meat has gone off. 
eater I'm not a great meat eater.
content These pies have a low meat content.
consumption Britain's meat consumption > Special page at FOOD 
actual, basic, detailed, sheer We need to discuss the actual mechanics of the operation. 
classical, fluid, Newtonian, quantum, statistical 
bronze, gold, silver He won a gold medal in the 100 metres.
championship, Olympic
commemorative A commemorative medal was struck in honour of the event. 
hope, hopes He is a major medal hope for Britain. Her medal hopes were dashed by injury. 
rench, international, UN, etc. 
accept Unless management accepts mediation, the strike will never be resolved. 
through sb's ~ The conflict ended through the mediation of the United Nations.
stop She stopped the medication because of side effects.
for He is on regular medication for his fits. 
deep, profound Techniques of deep meditation help people under stress.
quiet, silent He stared out of the window in silent meditation.
Buddhist, Christian
~ on The novel is an extended meditation on art, love and loss. 
up We met up after school. 
chance to, happen to A year or so later I happened to meet him again. 
for I arranged to meet her for lunch.
with Management will meet with union representatives next week. I met up with my friends in town. 
look forward to meeting sb I look forward to meeting you next week.
head-on Thet were determined to meet the challenge head-on. 
be unable to, fail to He had failed to meet his performance targets.
be designed to, be tailored to The course is designed to meet the needs of young learners. 
levelly, squarely, unflinchingly, without flinching Leonora met his gaze without flinching.
across Their eyes met across the crowded room. 
individual Subscriptions are cheaper for individual members.
active, enthusiastic She's an active member of her local church.
life a life member of the Red Cross
paid-up He was a paid-up member of the Communist Party. 
a member of staff All members of staff will receive a pay rise. 
of I've become a member of our local sports club. 
through a/the ~ The virus then passes through the cell membrane. 
~ from, ~ of my memo of 28 June, 2001
~ on A memo on the curriculum changes from the Head of Education.
~ to She ciurculated a memo to the staff. 
be It was a truly memorable experience. 
for The holiday was memorable for the food. 
lasting, permanent The statue is a lasting memorial to those who died in the war.
stand The memorial stands on the village green. 
~ to The prime minister today unveiled a memorial to those who died in the disaster. 
combat, counter Shop owners are struggling to combat the menace of armed robbery. 
to He's a menace to society. 
hidden, quiet, silent ‘Where do you think you're going?’ he said with quiet menace. 
an air of menace The scar down his face added to his air of menace. 
have, suffer from He is suffering from viral meningitis.
catch, contract > Special page at ILLNESS 
earliest, first The earliest mention of the village is in a 16th-century manuscript. 
deserve My cousin deserves a mention for all his hard work.
get, receive His professor gets a mention in the acknowledgements.
make Special mention must be made of Yuki Yamagishi's wonderful performance as the doctor.
hear I've heard no mention of a salary increase this year. 
at the ~ of At the very mention of his name, Kate started shaking with fright. 
consult, have, look at, read, see, study May we have the menu?
do, have, offer Many restaurants do a very reasonable set menu at lunchtime.
board The chef was chalking the daily specials on the menu board. 
on the ~ What's on the menu this evening? 
a choice of menu Passengers are offered a daily choice of menu. 
item, option > Special page at COMPUTER 
carry, sell The company carries a wide range of merchandise. 
divine, infinite God's infinite mercy 
have, show (sb) God have mercy on us! They showed no mercy to their captives. 
dash, flight, mission Aid agencies are making mercy flights into the flood region.
at the ~ of We're at the mercy of the weather.
without ~ The terrorists are completely without mercy. 
aesthetic, architectural, artistic, literary The film has no artistic merit whatsoever.
relative We need to consider the relative merits of both makes of cooker.
individual Each case should be judged on its individual merits. 
argue, assess, consider, debate, discuss, judge We need to assess the merits of both proposals before making our decision. 
award She received a merit award for outstanding work. 
according to ~ Films are given a rating of one to five stars according to merit.
on ~ Prizes are awarded entirely on merit. 
no merit in doing sth I can see no merit in excluding the child from school.
order of merit The winners are ranked in order of merit. 
tangled, untidy Her hair was a tangled mess.
emotional He's an emotional mess since his girlfriend left him.
leave, make Must you always leave such a mess? She felt she was making a terrible mess of her life.
feel I felt a mess.
create, get sb into Who got us into this mess in the first place?
in a ~ The kitchen's in an awful mess.
~ of There was a soggy mess of porridge on the table. 
twisted The bomb left a pile of jagged glass and twisted metal.
be cast from/in, be made from/(out) of a statue cast in metal The doors are made of metal.
card, prepayment, slot, token The token meter is operated by tokens costing £1 or £5. 
read The electricity company will send an employee to read your meter.
tick The taxi waited, its motor running, the meter ticking away. 
slide Place the specimen on a microscope slide. 
be, feel, look She felt middle-aged and dull.
chime, strike The church clock struck midnight. 
chime, strike Downstairs in the hall, midnight struck. 
on the stroke of midnight On the stroke of midnight, Prince Charming turned back into a rat. 
bring on, trigger Even the smell of oranges can trigger his migraine. 
attack > Special page at ILLNESS 
from, into, to migrating from Europe to Africa 
turn Towards the end of the week the weather turned very mild.
quite, relatively It's quite mild for the time of year.
surprisingly, unseasonably, unusually The late summer air was surprisingly mild. 
be, seem The infection seems quite mild, so she should be better soon. 
be, sound His voice was deceptively mild. 
high, low Car for sale: one careful owner, low mileage.
unlimited Your car hire costs include unlimited mileage. 
cover, do There was no record of the mileage the car had done. 
allowance The company gives a generous mileage allowance. 
extremely, highly, very The women on the march were highly militant.
create, form, set up The anarchists started to form volunteer militias.
drive, power The river was harnessed to drive many mills. 
grind sth, work sth The mill can be seen grinding corn. 
conscious, subconscious, unconscious Our subconscious mind tries to protect us.
open Try to keep an open mind until you've heard all the facts.
one-track Honestly, all you ever talk about is sex?you've got a one-track mind! 
come into, come to, cross, flash across/into, go through, spring to The thought never crossed my mind! I'm sure someone can help you, but no one immediately springs to mind.
bear in, keep in Bear in mind the age of the vehicle when assessing its value. Here are some important points to keep in mind …
slip I'm sorry I forgot your birthday?it completely slipped my mind.
prey on It's been preying on my mind ever since it happened.
occupy He occupied his mind by playing cards against himself. 
wander Her mind began to wander.
race His mind raced, trying to think of a way out of the situation.
be in a turmoil, reel Her mind was still reeling from the shock. 
in your ~ You've been in my mind a lot lately.
in ~ I'll keep what you say in mind.
on your ~ I've got a lot on my mind at the moment. 
at/in the back of your mind The problem was always at the back of my mind.
at/in the forefront of your mind Try to keep safety in the forefront of your mind at all times.
a frame/state of mind He's in rather a negative frame of mind.
have sth in mind What kind of party do you have in mind?
in the recesses of your mind It was something she had never imagined, not even in the deepest recesses of her mind.
no doubt in your mind There was absolutely no doubt in my mind that he was guilty.
uppermost in your mind Their own problems of course remained uppermost in their minds. 
go down, work at/down/in At 14, he went down the mines. 
produce sth At its peak, the mine produced 5,000 tons of coal a day. 
clear, dispose of, remove The troops are slowly clearing the mines.
coal, copper, gold, lead, tin, uranium, etc. > Note at JOB 
freely The prince mingled freely with the crowd.
with She felt fear mingled with excitement. 
chief, principal Queen Elizabeth's chief minister, Lord Burghley
cabinet, departmental, EU, Foreign Office, government, Home Office
relevant, responsible Local authorities should submit schemes to the relevant minister for approval.
serve as He served briefly as prime minister from 1920 to 1921.
lobby, persuade, urge lobbying the Transport Minister over the issue
be accountable to sb, be responsible for sth Ministers are accountable to Parliament. the minister responsible for the health service
intervene (in sth) The foreign minister intervened with disastrous results. 
for the new minister for the Arts
~ of A new minister of defence had been appointed. > See PRIME MINISTER 
Baptist, Congregational, Methodist, Nonconformist, Presbyterian 
ordain (sb), ordain sb as He was ordained minister of a small rural congregation. 
extremely, very This is a very minor operation and there is very little risk involved.
comparatively, fairly, quite, relatively That's a relatively minor matter. We can leave it till later.
pass, tick by The minutes ticked by and still nothing happened. 
after … ~s After twenty minutes I started to get worried.
for … ~s We waited for ten minutes and then left.
in … ~s The film starts in ten minutes.
~s to ten minutes to three > Note at MEASURE 
last Don't leave everything till the last minute. 
hang on, hold on, wait Could you wait a minute, please?
have, spare Do you have a minute, Miss Brown? Can you spare a minute?
take This will only take a minute. 
in a ~ I'll be with you in a minute.
within ~s The ship sank within minutes. 
just a minute, the minute sth happens Tell him I want to see him the minute he arrives.
not for a minute I never thought for a minute he'd refuse.
this minute Come here this minute! 
keep, take Who's going to take the minutes?
write up I wrote up the minutes of the meeting and circulated them by email. 
the minutes of a meeting > Special page at MEETING 
quite Something quite miraculous happened.
two-way He watched them through a two-way mirror.
driving, rear, rear-view, wing Always check your mirror before pulling out to overtake. 
admire yourself in, examine yourself in, look at yourself/your face in He was busy admiring himself in the wardrobe mirror.
fix, hang We hung a mirror over the fireplace.
image Art can be seen as a mirror image of society. 
in a/the ~ She stared at her face in the mirror. 
glint, hint There was a glint of mischief in her eyes. 
cause, do, make Such people will do anything they can to make mischief.
get into/up to Don't get up to any mischief while we're out.
keep/stay out of Try to stay out of mischief, will you? 
gross, serious She was sacked last year for gross misconduct.
deny The directors all deny financial misconduct. 
~ on the part of There was no misconduct on the part of the police. 
on (the) grounds of misconduct Staff can lose their jobs only on grounds of professional misconduct. > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
abject, deep, extreme, great, real, sheer, untold This phobia can cause untold misery for the sufferer.
complete Her misery was made complete when she was separated from her children.
be full of, be wrapped (up) in, endure, feel, live in, sink into, suffer He was too wrapped in misery to reply. I sank deeper into my misery. men who suffer the misery of unemployment
bring (sb), cause (sb), create The money brought him nothing but misery.
add to, heap, prolong War has now added to the misery of these starving people. The giant-killers heaped more misery on the home team.
put sb/sth out of In the end we asked the vet to put the poor creature out of its misery (= kill it humanely). (humorous) Oh, put her out of her misery?tell her who won.
spare sb At least we were spared the misery of having to do it all again.
a feeling of misery, make sb's life a misery His constant criticism made her life a misery. 
be dogged by, have, suffer The expedition was dogged by misfortune. I had the misfortune to share a room with someone who snored loudly. 
befall sb, strike Misfortune struck before they had even left the harbour. 
be sb's misfortune He is the rudest man it has ever been my misfortune to meet. 
fundamentally Their approach to the problem is fundamentally misguided. 
about The parents had been misinformed about the incident. 
be badly misinformed It became clear that the general had been badly misinformed. 
be easy to It would be easy to misinterpret results from such a small sample. 
as I realized that what I'd said could be misinterpreted as criticism. 
actively, deliberately She was accused of deliberately misleading Parliament.
easily They were naive and easily misled. 
be liable to Statistics taken on their own are liable to mislead. 
about Parliament has been totally misled about this affair.
into The company misled hundreds of people into investing their money unwisely. 
badly, seriously The prison service has been badly mismanaged in recent years. 
entirely, quite, totally, wholly Her confidence in him was entirely misplaced.
sadly His optimism proved sadly misplaced. 
easily Think carefully about what you say: your views could be easily misrepresented by the press. 
as Ecstasy is widely misrepresented as a soft drug. 
miss sth All of the missiles missed their target. 
hurl, pelt sb with, throw They pelted her with eggs and various other missiles. 
joint a joint Anglo-American mission
accomplish, complete Our mission accomplished, we headed for home.
abandon, abort (especially of military missions) The captain instructed them to abort the mission.
fly (on) (used of military planes) He flew a total of 41 missions over Britain. 
end in failure, fail Their mission ended in failure.
on a/the ~ He was often out of the office on various missions. 
mission impossible Many regard his task as mission impossible. 
to The US is sending a trade mission to China. 
go on, make He's been on several shuttle missions over the last decade.
control The spacecraft lost contact with mission control. 
~ to a successful spacecraft mission to Venus 
have He now has a mission in life: to expand the horizons of those around him. 
a man/woman with a mission You can tell by the determined way he talks that he is a man with a mission.
a sense of mission A powerful sense of mission underpins everything he does. 
dense, heavy, thick A heavy mist rolled over the fields.
dark, grey, red, white There was a red mist in front of his eyes.
be cloaked in, be covered in, be shrouded in, be wreathed in The harbour was covered in a thick mist.
disappear into, vanish in/into The little town had vanished in the mist.
emerge from, loom out of A large figure loomed out of the mist.
break through, shine through Soon the sun would break through the mist.
be lost in (figurative) The origins of Morris dancing are lost in the mists of time. 
hang, hover, lie A faint mist hung over the valley.
come down, descend When the mist comes down it comes quickly and covers everything.
clear, lift The mist had cleared by mid-morning.
drift, float, rise, roll, swirl A grey mist floated towards us. a swirling mist a thin mist rising from the river
cling to sth Early morning mist still clung to the hollows.
cover sth, hide sth, obscure sth, shroud sth A white mist obscured the top of the hill. 
in/into the ~ It was hard to make out the path in the mist.
through the ~ The cottage was scarcely visible through the mist. 
easily An unwary observer could easily mistake this constellation for a comet. 
can't You can't mistake him. He's got long ginger hair. 
for I'm sorry. I mistook you for George. 
there is no mistaking sth There was no mistaking the admiration in his eyes. 
string The king kept a string of mistresses. 
as My concern for their well-being was misunderstood as interference. 
computer He was sacked for computer misuse. 
vary The precise mix will vary. 
of The college has a broad mix of students. 
inextricably In his world-view, art and religions were inextricably mixed.
escape sb A low moan of despair escaped her as she realized what had gone wrong. 
with a ~ He staggered about ten yards and fell down with a moan.
a moan of pleasure/despair, the moan of the wind > Note at SOUND 
social Education was the key to upward social mobility.
have She has limited mobility in her arms. 
mobility of labour The difference in regional house prices acts as an obstacle to mobility of labour. 
gently, softly ‘Too scary for you?’ he mocked softly.
subtly The play subtly mocks the conventions of courtly love. 
at He mocked at her hopes of stardom.
with She mocked him with her smile. 
of She made a fantastic clay model of her dog. 
do, make, produce They do several other models of washing machine.
recall They're recalling their new model for modifications to the engine. 
give sb, provide (sb with) The tape provides a model for students to copy
of She was a model of restraint.
~ for Successful state schools must be used as models for the rest. 
photograph, shoot > Note at JOB 
sit for sb/sth The model sits for me for three hours every day. 
link Data is transmitted via a modem link to the central office. 
via (a/the) ~ You can send the files to us on disk or via modem. > Special page at COMPUTER 
call for The government called for greater moderation on the part of the unions.
be the key to sth Moderation is the key to good health. 
in ~ Drinking alcohol is all right in moderation.
with ~ Always act with moderation. 
becoming She accepted their congratulations with becoming modesty. 
forbid sb Modesty forbade me from mentioning that my novel had been published. 
with ~ She spoke with characteristic modesty.
considerably, drastically, greatly, heavily, profoundly, radically, significantly, substantially The original text has been modified so radically that it is barely recognizable.
have to, need to You may need to modify your plans a little. 
highly modified, in a modified form These ideas are still used today, though in a slightly modified form.
be, feel, look Her skin felt moist and feverish.
become, grow Beth's dark eyes grew moist as she kissed her son.
keep sth Keep the atmosphere in your greenhouse slightly moist throughout the spring. 
with His fingers were becoming moist with sweat. 
plant They suspected that a mole had been planted in the organization. 
anxious, awful, awkward, embarrassing, heart-stopping, terrifying For one heart-stopping moment, we thought she was going to fall.
bad, difficult That was a bad moment in my life.
spare Could you look through this report when you have a spare moment?
exact, precise, very I felt at home here from the very moment I arrived.
good, opportune, perfect, right I don't think this is the right moment to ask for a pay rise.
critical, crucial, decisive, important, key We have reached a critical moment in the negotiations.
finest, great, happiest, proudest Her finest moment came when she won Wimbledon.
unguarded She let the news slip by mistake, in an unguarded moment.
last (possible) Why do you leave it until the last possible moment before getting ready to leave? 
last, take The feeling only lasted a moment. This won't take a moment.
spend I spent a few moments thinking what I was going to say.
give sb, spare (sb) I can only spare you a moment, I'm afraid?I'm terribly busy.
enjoy, savour Victory was sweet, and he wanted to savour every moment.
choose, pick He's in a bad mood today?you need to choose your moment carefully.
capture I managed to capture the moment on film. 
arrive, come The moment had finally come to make a move.
pass He opened his mouth to say he loved her, but the moment passed. 
after a/the ~ After a moment we followed him.
at a/the ~ At that very moment the telephone rang. He might wake up at any moment.
for a/the ~ She paused for a moment.
from a/the ~ I loved her from the first moment I met her.
in a/the ~ I'll be back in a moment. in her rare moments of leisure
~ of at the moment of death It was the proudest moment of my entire life. There was a moment of silence. 
a few moments Could you wait a few moments?
a moment ago He was here just a moment ago.
a moment later A moment later, the ceiling fell in.
a moment longer/more I couldn't stand it a moment longer.
a moment or two I stood there for a moment or two.
never a dull moment There's never a dull moment in this job. 
great the great monstery of St-Quentin
Benedictine, Dominican, etc.
Buddhist 
enter, go into (= become a monk) He entered a monastery as a young man.
found The monastery was founded in 1665. 
at a/the ~ You can stay at the monastery.
in a/the ~ He lived in a monastery for most of his life. 
big There is big money in golf for the top players.
easy He started stealing as a way of making easy money.
government, public, taxpayers' Is this a good way to spend taxpayers' money?
pocket, spending Did your parents give you pocket money when you were little? I don't know how much spending money to take on holiday.
paper The collection box was full of coins and paper money.
have I haven't got any money left.
borrow, bring in, collect, earn, get, make, raise, receive He hoped the scheme would bring in quite a bit of money. Some people were in the street collecting money for charity. How much money did he earn last year? I'll have to get some more money from somewhere.
bank, deposit, pay in small shopkeepers banking their money at the end of the day I need to pay this money in today.
fritter away, lose, run out of, spend, squander, throw away, waste She lost a lot of money at the casino. We ran out of money and had to come home early. He squandered his money on gambling and drink.
hoard, save, set aside, stash away an old miser who hoarded his money We're trying to set some money aside for a new car. 
invest, tie up They sensibly invested their prize money rather than spending it. All their money was tied up in long-term investments.
donate, give sb, lend sb, pay (sb), provide (sb with), put up Half the money raised was donated to charity. He managed to persuade his friend to put up the money for the venture.
give (sb) back, pay (sb) back, refund (sb), repay (sb) I'll pay the money back next week, I promise. The shop was unwilling to refund my money.
owe (sb) They owe lots of people money.
accept, take I don't think they'll accept French money on the plane. The bookmaker was quite happy to take his money.
cost These cars cost quite a lot of money.
be worth That painting is worth a lot of money.
change, exchange We changed our money into dollars at the airport.
allocate The quality of public health care depends on the amount of money allocated to it.
launder He was charged with laundering money. 
come from sth Money for the extension to the gallery came from the sale of old exhibits.
go (on sth), go to I don't know where all the money goes! All his money went on drink. Most of the money went to pay for the food and drink.
come in She had two children to support and no money coming in. 
market He made a fortune dealing on the money markets.
for ~ He'll do anything for money!
~ for Where's the money for the milk? 
get money off sth You might get some money off the price if it's an old model.
get your money's worth The boat trip lasts three hours, so you certainly get your money's worth.
pay/put money in/into the bank I pay my money into the bank as soon as I get paid.
put money on sth He stopped at the betting shop to put money on a horse.
put/sink money into sth He sank most of his money into his struggling business.
take money off sth He felt sorry for her and took some money off her bill.
throw money at sth They tend to throw money at problems without trying to work out the best solution.
throw your money around He thinks he can make friends by throwing his money around. > Special page at BUSINESS 
carefully, closely, rigorously, strictly Television advertising is strictly monitored.
be able to We will now be able to monitor its progress more closely.
continue to The authorities will continue to monitor the situation. 
for The workers are constantly monitored for exposure to radiation. 
uddhist, Christian
Benedictine, Dominican, etc.
deliver, do, go into, launch into, recite She delivered her monologue in a deadpan voice. an entertainer who does comic monologues 
about She launched into a long monologue about how wonderful the company was.
~ on He went straight into a rambling monologue on the state of the country. 
set in The south-west monsoon sets in during April. 
during a/the ~ Travelling is much more difficult during the monsoon. 
last, past The past few months have been hectic.
coming, following, next, future Winning stories will be published in the magazine in future months.
intervening To occupy the intervening months she took a temporary job.
record This has been a record month for sales. 
spend He spent about a month decorating the house.
take It took months to find another job. 
during/in a/the ~ of The festival is always held in the month of May.
for a ~ It hasn't rained for months.
in a ~ We're getting married in a month/in a month's time.
over/under a ~ I've been working on the illustration for over a month.
per ~ What does the salary work out as per month?
~ of The months of July and August are the hottest. 
a time of the month Our money's usually running low by this time of the month. > Note at MONTH 
amiable, cheerful, good, happy, jolly, jovial She was not in the best of moods.
bullish, buoyant, confident, optimistic She was in a bullish mood about the future of the company.
changeable, changing I can't keep up with his constantly changing moods.
defiant The sacked workers were in defiant mood as they entered the tribunal.
funny, strange He's in a funny mood today?who knows how he'll react?
festive It was Christmas and everyone was in festive mood.
be in Don't talk to Miranda today?she's in a terrible mood!
get sb in, put sb in The music helped to put them in a more relaxed mood.
match, reflect, suit Choose colours to match your mood. The weather seemed to reflect his sombre mood.
improve, lift, lighten His mood lifted as he concentrated on his driving. 
swing After the accident he suffered violent mood swings. 
be in no mood for sth I tried to make him laugh, but he was in no mood for jokes.
a change of mood Instantly he felt her change of mood. 
be bathed in, gleam in, glint in, shine in The fields were bathed in bright moonlight that night. His helmet glinted in the moonlight. 
by ~ The castle looks fantastic by moonlight.
in the ~ The leaves were silver in the moonlight. 
be torn from, break/come loose from, slip During the storm several of our boats were torn from their moorings. The crowds cheered as the great ship slipped her moorings and slid out into the Atlantic. 
good, high Morale is very high in the school.
affect, be bad for, be damaging to, damage, hit, lower, sap, undermine These unfortunate incidents sapped both our morale and our resources.
keep up, maintain The bonus helped maintain morale among the staff.
booster Mail from home is a great morale booster for our soldiers. 
among Morale among nurses is at rock bottom. 
on/upon The government has called for a moratorium on weapons testing. 
eat I couldn't eat another morsel. 
high Poor hygiene led to high mortality among children.
among Mortality among immigrant groups was higher than average.
cheap Banks often offer their employees cheap mortgages.
have We've got a big mortgage.
get, raise (formal), take out They were having trouble getting a mortgage. We'll have to take out a second mortgage to pay for this holiday!
pay, pay off, redeem, repay He didn't earn enough to support his family and pay the mortgage. There are penalties if you want to redeem your mortgage early.
be in arrears with, fall behind with, get behind with They were in arrears with their mortgage, so their home was repossessed. 
interest) payment, repayment They were struggling to keep up with their mortgage repayments.
~ on I couldn't get a mortgage on the property. 
at/in a/the ~ We spent a night at a motel on the way. 
central, dominant Alienation is a central motif in her novels.
simple The rug was decorated with a simple flower motif.
fish, flower, etc. The jacket has a rose motif on the collar. 
be, crouch, hang, kneel, lie, remain, sit, stand, stay, wait The flag hung motionless on its pole. 
have Many of the boys have very poor motivation.
lose By this time the children had lost all their motivation for writing poetry.
run, work He left the motor running.
drive sth A powerful motor drives the mill wheel. 
orbital, urban the M25 London orbital motorway 
crash, pile-up Five people have been killed in a motorway pile-up. 
down the ~ He sang as he rattled down the motorway.
~ from, ~ to We were on the motorway to London. 
cast sth in, make sth in The statues were cast in clay moulds.
in a/the ~ Leave the clay in the mould overnight.
be/come from, be cast in, fit (into) She is clearly from a different mould from her team mate. He doesn't fit into the usual mould of head teachers.
break, break free of Breaking the traditional mould of local politics is not going to be easy. trying to break free of the old mould 
from/in a different/the same mould His brother came from a different mould, being a successful lawyer. 
be covered in/with The biscuits were covered in green mould. 
successfully The company successfully mounted a takeover bid in 1996. 
hourly Election fever is mounting hourly.
up The cost quickly mounts up. 
beautifully The prints were beautifully mounted.
directly The switch is mounted directly on the wall.
in The diamond is mounted in gold.
on The specimens were carefully mounted on slides. 
be in, go into He was in deep mourning for his dead wife. 
in ~ She was still in full mourning six months after her son's death. 
have, sport Her fiance sported a neat ginger moustache.
grow He's trying to grow a moustache.
stroke He stroked his moustache thoughtfully. 
droop An enormous black moustache drooped over his mouth.
bristle His grey moustache bristled with importance. 
drink, eat, gulp (down), have, swallow, take She took a large mouthful of bread and started to read the letter.
between ~s He told the story between mouthfuls.
through a ~ She answered through a mouthful of cake.
right She wondered whether she had made the right move in telling the truth.
false, wrong One false move could lead to war.
dramatic, shock (used in journalism), surprise, unexpected The company was put up for sale yesterday in a shock move by management.
first, initial If he wants to see me, he should make the first move.
career Getting a job in advertising was a good career move. 
be, represent The talks represented the first significant move towards peace.
make The management has made no move to settle the strike.
signal The new legislation signalled a move away from state involvement in telecommunications.
spearhead The move is spearheaded by a former MP.
decide (on) They are waiting for the results of the opinion polls before deciding their next move.
announce The government announced its move to ban smoking in public spaces. 
be afoot, be underway Moves are afoot to increase car insurance premiums.
reflect sth The move reflects a change in approach to research. 
in a/the ~ In a move which surprised commentators, the president sacked several cabinet ministers.
~ away from a move away from traditional Labour policies
a move in the right direction Although the new environmental regulations are flawed, they represent a move in the right direction (= they do improve the current situation). 
false One false move and I'll shoot!
make We should make a move (= leave) ? it's really late. 
to/towards She made a move towards the door. 
be/keep (sb/sth) on the move His career as a petroleum engineer has kept him on the move (= kept him moving about from place to place).
every/no/one move She made no move as the lion sniffed at the tent.
follow/watch sb/sth's every move The cubs followed their mother on the hunt, watching her every move.
get a move on We're leaving in five minutes so you'd better get a move on (= hurry)!
make a move for sth (informal) He made a move for (= towards) the door. 
sideways His new job was a sideways move rather than a promotion.
from, ~ to a move from London to Leeds 
learn She learned all the chess moves when she was four.
on a/the ~ She captured the rook with her bishop on the 32nd move. 
television/TV
home We watched a home movie of my second birthday party.
go to (see), take sb to (see) I'd never go to a movie alone.
be based on sth a movie based on the novel by Betty Munn
be called sth, be entitled sth a movie entitled ‘Short Legs’
actor, actress, director, maker, mogul, people, producer, star The former footballer is now mixing with movie people in Hollywood.
about a movie about the life of Castro 
get (sb) in/into I got into an awful muddle with my tax forms.
make The judge made a muddle of the case. 
in a ~ The house was in a awful muddle by the time the children left.
~ about/over/with There was a bureaucratic muddle over his appointment. 
get sth, make sth Don't get your shoes muddy! The rain had made the football pitch extremely muddy. 
all My boots were all muddy.
a bit, rather We all got a bit muddy and wet. 
by ~ They travelled across the mountains by mule.
fourfold, fivefold, manifold, etc. Just imagine all the problems we've been having, multiplied a thousandfold.
together, up Multiply these two figures together. If you are cooking for more people, just multiply up the quantities. 
about I couldn't understand what he was mumbling about.
into She mumbled something into her pillow.
to George mumbled incoherently to himself. 
find sth I found the job very mundane 
avenge He vowed to avenge his brother's murder.
get away with (figurative) They let their children get away with murder! 
mystery, story Her latest novel is a gripping murder mystery. > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
real He protested his innocence and promised to help police track down the real murderer.
strike The murderer has struck again.
the identity of the murderer The identity of her murderer has not yet been revealed. 
gently, quietly, softly, under your breath ‘What a fool I've been,’ he murmured softly.
apologetically, appreciatively, politely, soothingly, thoughtfully ‘Mmm, ’ she murmured appreciatively.
hear sb She heard him murmur something under his breath. 
to He held her tight and murmured to her. 
working Although the mill is no longer in commerical use, it is maintained as a working museum.
be devoted to sth, contain sth, house sth a museum devoted to railway memorabilia The museum houses a fine collection of textiles. 
at a/the ~ an exhibition of Chinese ceramics at the Ashmolean Museum
in a/the ~ There's a gift shop in the museum.
~ of the Museum of Modern Art 
quiet, soft, sweet The soft background music made her feel sleepy.
heavy Heavy music thundered from the basement.
Western
period Appropriate period music can be played on visits to a historic building.
avant-garde, Baroque, classical, contemporary, early, medieval, modern
listen to Listening to music is a great way to relax.
hear She could hear music coming from the upstairs flat.
make, perform, play We love to make music as a family.
play, put on Put some music on, would you? (= play a CD/cassette)
turn down/up Could you turn that music down?
put/set sth to Schubert set several poems by Goethe to music.
create, produce With the guidance of the conductor, an orchestra creates music and harmonies. The city has produced a lot of good music.
be into, enjoy, like, love She's really into rock music.
get into He got into music (= became involved in the music business) by chance. 
play Calypso music played faintly in the distance.
come, drift The music was coming from next door. 
scene Birmingham's live music scene
world She is a rising star in the music world.
press The album has been praised in the music press.
charts The band are number one in the music charts.
centre We bought a new television and music centre at the weekend.
in time to (the) music They did their exercises in time to the music.
music and song an evening of Scottish music and song
the sound of music The sound of pop music drifted through the open window.
a style of music, taste in music Her taste in music was wide.
words and music He made up the words and music for the song. > Note at SUBJECT(for more verbs and nouns) 
read Can you read music? 
stand Put your music on the music stand.
backing, orchestral She had toured as a backing musician for a rock star.
practise (sth), rehearse (sth) > Note at JOB 
hot Add some hot English mustard.
Dijon, English, French 
spread (sth with) Spread the bread thinly with mustard.
add, mix (sth with) Mix together the mustard and olive oil.
colour > Special page at FOOD 
slightly, somewhat Their reaction to the news was somewhat muted.
against He led a military mutiny against the senior generals.
~ by mutiny by the men > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
big, great How the disease started is one of medicine's great mysteries.
complete, total She was a total mystery to him despite their long association.
whole He had found the clue to unlock the whole mystery
certain Her blue eyes had a certain mystery.
murder He is the author of several murder mysteries. 
be, present (sb with), remain How these insects actually communicate presents something of a mystery.
have, hold It was easy to believe that the tiny hamlet held some great mystery.
be cloaked in, be shrouded in, be veiled in The whole incident was shrouded in mystery.
lose Air travel has lost much of its mystery.
clear up, explain, resolve, solve, uncover, unlock, unravel The police are close to solving the mystery of the missing murder weapon.
shed/throw light on The witness could shed no light on the mystery of the deceased's identity.
explore, fathom, grapple with, penetrate, understand Her poetry attempts to penetrate the dark mystery of death.
ponder (on) She pondered the mystery of the disappearing thief. 
deepen The mystery deepened when the police's only suspect was found murdered.
man, woman Their suspect was a mystery man: a quiet, happily married man with no enemies.
about There's a bit of a mystery about this child.
~ as to It remains a mystery as to where he was buried.
~ to My sister is a complete mystery to me. 
an air/aura of mystery Wearing dark glasses gives him an air of mystery.
something of a mystery, take the mystery out of sth Modern weather forecasts try to take the mystery out of meteorology. 
Christian, Greek, Norse, Roman, etc.
creation (= that explains how the world began) the creation myths of the Eskimos 
great There is a great myth that all sports players are stupid.
complete, total It's a complete myth that he has royal blood.
national The battle has become part of national myth.
historical, political The propaganda of both sides relies heavily on historical myth.
heroic, romantic Propaganda has turned the former president into a heroic myth.
cosy The film tears down the cosy myths about fair play in war. 
create, cultivate, establish How did the myth get so firmly established in the popular consciousness?
be based on People's faith in the Emperor was based on the myth that he was infallible. 
persist The myth persists that men are more intelligent than women. 
contrary to popular myth Contrary to popular myth, women are not worse drivers than men. 
have on, wear She wore red nail varnish.
regard sth as He regarded the move as politically naive. 
full His full name was William Augustus Grove.
pet She insisted on being called by her full name ‘Clementia’ rather than the pet name ‘Clemmey’. (see also nickname)
joint The account is in joint names.
common ‘Smith’ is a very common family name.
personal The village of Low Catton takes its name from the Old English personal name ‘Catta’.
pen-, professional, stage George Eliot was a pen-name; her real name was Mary Ann Evans. (see also pseudonym)
have Have you got a middle name?
bear, carry The Julian calendar was introduced by Julius Caesar and hence carries his name.
be known by, go by The island is more commonly known by the name ‘Krakatoa’. He goes by the name of Jonno.
use She uses a different name in her professional life.
acquire, get, obtain The Brady bill acquired its name from its best-known sponsor, James Brady.
adopt, assume, take He was elected Pope in 1978 and took the name of John Paul II.
keep She decided to keep her maiden name for professional purposes.
carry on He wanted an heir to carry on the family name.
immortalize His name was immortalized in 1992 when he scored three goals in the space of five minutes.
give sb/sth She was given the name Maria, after her grandmother.
give sb, name, pass on Detectives believe that a hitman was sent to silence the witness before he could name names (= give evidence to the court/police).
call sb/sth by Please call me by my first name.
call sb ~s Stop calling me names (= stop saying rude/insulting things about me)!
call (out) Somebody called out her name from below.
mention We cannot mention the suspect's name for legal reasons.
drop She found him rather irritating to talk to; all he did was drop names (= mention the names of famous people he knew or had met in order to impress her).
invoke He invoked the name of Freud in support of his argument.
ask (sb) I asked him his name.
hear I've heard that name mentioned before.
know How do you know my name?
enter, put down Have you put your name down for (= applied to take part in) the school quiz?
put forward They put his name forward (= chose him) as one of the five candidates for the post. 
appear The name of the artist appears on the vase.
by ~ The head teacher knows every child in the school by name.
by the ~ of an actor by the name of Tom Rees
in sb/sth's ~ The tickets were booked in the name of McLean. I arrest you in the name (= on the authority) of the law.
under a/the ~ The room was booked under (= using) a false name.
~ for/of The common name for the flower is ‘pineapple lily’. 
a change of name, give your name to sth The invading Franks gave their name to the country in which they settled.
name and address, names and faces I have a bad memory for names and faces.
put a name to sb/sth Nobody puts their name to a business (= uses their name for the name of a business) they are not proud of.
take sb's name in vain Have you been taking my name in vain (= showing lack of respect when using my name)? 
become She has become a big name in documentary photography.
make He made his name writing travel books. She's made quite a name for herself.
acquire, get The area got a bad name after a series of nasty murders.
protect They tried to protect the good name of the college.
give sb This kind of behaviour gives students a bad name.
blacken, damage The riots after the match only served to blacken the name of football. 
for The company has a name for reliability. 
sb's name is mud If you tell our secret your name will be mud (= you will not be popular) round here. 
big, famous, household, well-known They are a big name in the world of rock music. 
to She was taken on as a nanny to their two small children. > Note at JOB 
table She dabbed her mouth with her table napkin.
tuck He tucked his napkin under his chin.
trade in He has been arrested for trading in narcotics. 
agent, officer, official, squad > Note at DRUG(for more verbs and nouns) 
a bit, fairly, quite, rather, relatively The pass gets quite narrow towards the east. 
be, look, smell, sound, taste He made it all sound very nasty.
become, get, turn Things could turn nasty (= dangerous) if we're not careful. 
about She was nasty about everyone.
to Kevin seems to enjoy being nasty to his sisters. 
be All the fibres are natural. 
only, perfectly, quite It's only natural that she should feel upset.
wave I was overcome by waves of nausea. 
leave sth, make sth Be sure to leave the room neat and tidy.
keep sth She kept her desk extremely neat. 
surprisingly The handwriting was surprisingly neat. 
logical, physical, practical The people in the rural areas use mud bricks only as an immediate, practical necessity.
commercial, economic, financial, historical, military, political, social He argued that nuclear weapons were a political necessity. 
recognize, see She saw the necessity to make an immediate impression on him.
accept (sth as), be convinced of They have accepted the necessity of greater state intervention.
emphasize, highlight, stress Observers stressed the necessity for the ceasefire to be observed.
be born (out) of Culling of the animals was born out of the necessity for successful conservation. 
arise These animals don't like water but will swim if the necessity arises.
demand (sth) Where necessity demands, we can seat more guests in the gallery.
force sth Necessity forced an urgent solution. 
of ~ The visit will, of necessity, be brief.
out of ~ He is changing job out of necessity, not because he particularly wants to.
through ~ Most of the women are forced, through economic necessity, to work in part-time low-paid jobs.
without the ~ of You can dial direct without the necessity of going through the operator.
~ for There's no necessity for you to come.
any/no necessity The company sees no necessity for a more cautious approach to investment. 
urgent Policies which address these issues are an urgent necessity.
bare, basic They have nothing but the barest necessities.
a necessity of life Food is a necessity of life. 
badly, desperately, really, urgently She needed some money badly. Research is urgently needed into the causes of this illness.
just, only, simply I just need some information.
hardly You hardly need me to tell you that your father is still very frail and must not be upset.
not necessarily These people may need 24-hour attention, but they do not necessarily need to be in hospital.
be expected to, be likely to, may well You may well need to look outside your preferred area to find affordable accommodation. 
answer (sth) in, reply in She answered the question in the negative. 
develop His interest in photography started with him developing negatives that he found lying around the house.
keep We must assume that the spy kept the negatives.
cannot/could not afford to This sector is one of the major growth areas and we cannot afford to neglect it. 
in favour of Local communities have been neglected in favour of private sector interests. 
contributory The plaintiff was guilty of contributory negligence for failing to wear a crash helmet.
accuse sb of, allege, claim, sue for The solicitor was accused of professional negligence.
by ~ His death was brought about by negligence on the doctor's part.
a finding of negligence The court made a finding of contributory negligence.
the result of (the) negligence The accident was the result of negligence on the part of the driver. > Note at CRIME(for more verbs) 
by no means, far from Delays in the courts are far from negligible.
serious It's time for some serious negotiation.
conduct Negotiations were conducted in secret.
be open to, be subject to The final price is open to negotiation. 
continue, go on Negotiations continued all day to avert a strike.
by ~ Rents are agreed by negotiation.
in ~ (with) She is in negotiation with other heads of state on the question of oil prices.
through ~ The problem should be resolved through negotiation.
under ~ Contracts are under negotiation.
~ between The alliance is the product of months of negotiation between the two parties.
a basis for negotiation, a matter for negotiation, months/years of negotiation They signed the treaty after several years of negotiation.
a process of negotiation Compromise is reached by a process of negotiation.
room for negotiation There is considerable room for negotiation on some of the details. > Special page at MEETING 
friendly, good She's been a very good neighbour to me.
close, immediate, near, next-door They are near neighbours of ours.
nearest She leaned towards her nearest neighbour and whispered something.
northern, southern, etc. England's northern neighbour now has its own parliament. 
damage, strain, trap I've trapped a nerve in my spine. 
go, lead, run The nerve runs from the eye to the brain.
transmit sth The nerves transmit pain.
throb He lay awake, his nerves throbbing. 
along a/the ~ The message travels along the nerve to the brain.
~ in He's been off work with a trapped nerve in his back.
~ to Cutting the nerves to the stomach does not affect hunger. 
every nerve in sb's body Intense pain shot through every nerve in his body.
hit a nerve, touch a (sensitive/raw) nerve (figurative) My remarks about divorce had unwittingly touched a raw nerve. 
bad, frayed, ragged, shattered, taut At the end of a day's teaching, her nerves were absolutely shattered. 
stretch Her nerves were stretched to breaking point. 
be on edge After the bomb, my nerves were on edge.
jangle His nerves jangled every time the phone rang.
stand I'm not sure my nerves can stand another night like this. 
s for Skydiving is all right for people who've got the nerves for it. 
a battle/war of nerves The union has been fighting a war of nerves with the management over pay.
get on sb's nerves His endless whining really gets on my nerves.
nerves of steel You need nerves of steel to be a good poker player.
exam, first-night I've never suffered from first-night nerves. 
calm, control, soothe, steady She took a few deep breaths to calm her nerves.
an attack of nerves I had an attack of nerves just before I went on stage.
a bag/bundle/mass of nerves By the time of the interview, I was a bundle of nerves. 
have I didn't have the nerve to ask.
lose At the last minute she almost lost her nerve.
keep He kept his nerve to win a thrilling match.
find You must find the nerve to ask for more money.
take It took a lot of nerve to stand up and speak. 
break, crack, fail (sb) At the last moment her nerve failed her. 
a failure/loss of nerve, a test of nerve Singing in front of so many people was a real test of nerve. 
appear, be, feel, look, seem, sound Both men appeared nervous.
make sb Sit down?you're making me nervous! 
desperately, extremely, highly, really, very He had worked himself up into a highly nervous state.
of I was slightly nervous of him. 
sit on The male and female take turns to sit on the nest.
fly, leave The young ones have flown the nest. 
site The male uses song to attract a female to his nest site.
away from a/the ~ A rat took the egg while the mother was away from the nest.
in/inside a/the ~ The snake will attack if disturbed inside its nest.
on a/the ~ The female spends all her time on the nest. 
mend The fishermen were mending their nets.
slip through (often figurative) We tried to contact all former students but one or two slipped through the net. 
in a/the ~ Unfortunately the animals are often caught in fishing nets.
into a/the ~ The ball went into the net.
build up, create, establish, form, set up They are establishing a network of pumps and pipelines to move the oil.
form The new rail services will form a network connecting the capital and major cities.
run They were unable to run the telephone network economically.
across a/the ~ Users can access data across a network.
in a/the ~ Members are all linked together in a network.
on a/the ~ All computer users are connected on a network.
over a/the ~ The files are accessible over a network.
through a/the ~ Drinking water is brought to the village through a network of underground pipes.
via a/the ~ The newspapers are sent out via a national distribution network.
~ of a network of motorways > Note at ORGANIZATION 
strictly The government maintained its strictly neutral policy.
basically, broadly The Russians took a broadly neutral position.
politically The meeting must be at a politically neutral location. 
be, seem Her expression seemed neutral.
keep sth Dolly kept her voice carefully neutral. 
fairly, quite, relatively She chose fairly neutral make-up.
culturally, ethically, ideologically, morally, politically Behaviour is never culturally neutral. 
gender neutral She argued that the law should always be gender neutral (= apply in exactly the same way to men and women). 
effectively This strategy effectively neutralized what the Conservatives had hoped would be a vote-winner. 
with Discarded acid should be neutralized with alkali before disposal. 
encouraging, excellent, good, great, marvellous, terrific, tremendous, welcome, wonderful The good news is that we've all been given an extra day's leave. Great news! We've bought the house.
hot, late, latest, recent Some late news has just come in.
front-page It was front-page news at the time.
business, City, financial
bit, item, piece We've had a bit of good news. 
get, have, hear, learn, receive Have you heard the latest news?
catch up on I want to catch up on all your news.
announce, break, bring (sb), give sb, tell sb The police had to break the news to the boy's parents.
spread She ran from office to office, spreading the news.
leak News of their engagement was leaked to the press.
report I haven't really got any news to report.
carry ‘The Daily Nation’ carried news of the event.
gather, get It's the reporter's job to go out and gather news.
await, expect, wait for They are waiting for news of their relatives.
greet, react to, welcome The news was greeted with astonishment.
make It was a very minor incident and barely made the news. 
come, come in, come through News is coming in of a large fire in central London.
break, leak out The news broke while we were on holiday.
spread, travel The news spread like wildfire. 
bulletin, flash, item, release, report, story Programmes were interrupted for a news flash.
coverage News coverage of the fighting was extremely biased.
conference The former manager gave his first news conference since being sacked.
at the ~ She went completely to pieces at the news of his death.
in the ~ She's been in the news a lot lately.
with the ~ Joan came in with the news that a pay rise had been agreed.
~ about I'm not interested in news about celebrities.
~ from And now with news from the Games, over to our Olympic correspondent.
~ on Is there any news on the car bomb attack?
~ to It was news 
radio, television, TV
read The news is read by Harriet Daly. 
in the ~ Our school was mentioned in the news.
on the ~ I heard it on t 
be, feel, look, seem, smell, sound, taste I felt nice and cosy. That bread smells nice. His mother sounded very nice on the phone.
make sth I tidied the room to make it nice for the others when they came home. 
perfectly, thoroughly I'm sure she's perfectly nice really.
not particularly It had not been a particularly nice experience.
enough Some of the boys were nice enough, but she didn't want to go out with them. 
about He was incredibly nice about it, though I am sure it caused him a lot of trouble.
for It's nice for Mum to get out more.
to Can't you be nice to each other for once? 
nice little It's a nice little place you've got here. 
acquire, get He got his nickname ‘Ash’ from his heavy smoking.
live up to Leicester Tigers lived up to their nickname in a very attacking game. 
stick He got his nickname when he was at school and it stuck for the rest of his life. 
for ‘Chalky’ is a common nickname for people called White. 
hence her/his nickname He worked in a garage?hence his nickname ‘Spanner’. 
Friday, Saturday, etc.
early, late I think I'll have an early night (= go to bed early).
spend They spent the night in Bristol.
stay Ask your Mum if you can stay the night. 
fall When it came the night fell quickly.
progress, wear on As the night wore on it grew colder. 
by ~ Paris by night
during/in the ~ I woke in the night.
for a/the ~, on Friday, etc. ~, per ~ The hotel costs £65 per person per night.
all night long, at this time of night, day and night/night and day (= all the time), a good night's sleep, good night She kissed him good night.
Friday, Saturday, etc.
the other I saw her the other night (= a few nights ago). 
at ~ She doesn't like to walk home late at night.
by ~, on Friday, etc. ~ 
make a night of it They decided to make a night of it and went on to a club.
a night out Fancy a night out? 
give sb The film gave me nightmares. 
about I have nightmares about drowning. 
worst Losing a child is my worst nightmare.
living The refugees had survived a living nightmare.
become, prove, turn into Their dream of living in the country turned into a nightmare when they both fell seriously ill.
scenario, vision the nightmare scenario of mass unemployment The writer evokes a nightmare vision of a future on a polluted planet.
curt, perfunctory, terse He dismissed them with a curt nod.
approving, satisfied She inspected my work and gave a satisfied nod.
passing (figurative) He gave a passing nod (= a brief acknowledgement) to the show that had launched his career. 
give (sb) My teacher gave me a nod of reassurance and I began.
get He's ready to play and just waiting to get the nod from the team coach.
~ from At a nod from Lawton, he gently turned the handle.
~ to, ~ towards ‘I couldn't have done this alone’, he said with a nod towards his wife. 
a nod of sb's/the head She answered with an almost imperceptible nod of the head. 
low, slight The slightest noise will wake him.
background There was constant background noise from the motorway.
rude One of the children made a rude noise. 
create, generate, make the noise created by aircraft She was making a lot of noise.
hear, listen to We could hear funny little sucking noises.
deaden, reduce Wood is used to deaden the noise. 
come from sth There were strange noises coming from the sitting room.
abate, die away/down, drop, fade away, fall The deafening noise of the machine dropped to a rumble, then stopped. 
above/over the ~ We had to shout over the noise of the traffic.
ask sb to, invite sb to Ten critics were asked to nominate their Book of the Year. 
as He has now been formally nominated as presidential candidate.
for She was nominated for a special award.
to He has been nominated to the committee. 
Democratic, Republican Party, etc.
Oscar, etc. 
through a/the ~ They were acting through nominees.
~ for the nominees for Best Director 
become Services for customers on public transport are becoming non-existent. 
completely, totally The hotel turned out to be completely non-existent.
almost, practically, virtually Crime is almost non-existent in these communities. 
conform to Their behaviour conforms to the group norm.
above the ~, below the ~, over the ~ They want to discourage pay settlements over the norm.
~ for On-screen editing has become the norm for all student work.
a deviation/departure from the norm, an exception to the norm, the norm rather than the exception In the inner-city areas, poverty is the norm rather than the exception. 
be/go back to, return to After a week of festivities, life returned to normal. 
above ~ The rainfall has been above normal for the time of year.
below ~ Sales to December are well below normal.
near ~ His pulse rate had slowed to somewhere near normal. 
frozen the white expanses of the frozen north > Note at DIRECTION(for more collocates) 
wave A wave of nostalgia came over him. 
feel He thought back to his time as a student and felt no nostalgia for any of it.
buff Nostalgia buffs gathered for the auction of wartime memorabilia.
trip The college reunion was a great nostalgia trip. 
with ~ I remember it with great nostalgia.
~ for She felt great nostalgia for the old way of life. 
for The drawing room is particularly notable for its splendid oak panelling. 
in passing He noted in passing that the government's record on unemployment was not very good.
duly Her lapse was duly noted by the stage manager and reported to the director.
above, already, earlier, previously These policies, as noted above, are not always successful.
should Visitors should note that the tower is not open to the public.
be pleased to I was pleased to note that my name had been spelt correctly for once. 
be worth noting There are a few points here that are worth noting.
it must/should be noted that … , a point to note There are two other points to note from this graph. 
for The lake is also noted for its bird population. 
take Take no notice of what you read in the papers.
come to Normally such matters would not come to my notice.
attract The change was too subtle to attract much notice. 
issue, place, post, put up The company has issued warning notices saying that all water should be boiled.
appear, go up The notice about his resignation went up this morning.
about There are notices about where to park. 
give, hand in your She's given notice that she intends to leave.
need, require The bank requires three days' notice. 
without ~ They cut off the electricity without notice.
~ of A landlord must give reasonable notice of his intention to inspect the property. 
at a moment's notice The team is ready to go anywhere in the world at a moment's notice.
at short notice It's the best we can do at such short notice.
notice to quit His landlord gave him two months' notice to quit.
on a month's/week's, etc. notice She's on a week's notice, which doesn't give her long to find another job. 
immediately The smell was immediately noticeable when you walked in the front door. 
in These changes are more noticeable in women than in men.
to This may not be noticeable to people from outside New York. 
be obliged to, be required to, must, should If you see anything suspicious you should notify the police immediately.
of All applicants will be notified of the result by post.
to Changes must be notified to the chairman. 
achieve, gain He achieved sudden notoriety when the details of his private life were revealed.
for This make of car has a certain notoriety for rust problems. 
properly/well nourished Patients recover quickly if they are well nourished. 
be, sound The scheme sounded rather novel. 
nineteenth-century, Victorian
write sth A prolific novelist, she wrote more than forty books. 
ovember noun > Note at MONTH 
delicate, fine, slight, subtle A baby is sensitive to the slightest nuances in its mother's voice. the painting's subtle nuances of colour and texture
social It took a while to get used to the social nuances of the office. 
understand Spectators may not understand all the nuances of the game. 
give sb She gave me a gentle nudge in the ribs to tell me to shut up.
awful, bloody (taboo), confounded, damned It's an awful nuisance having builders in the house all day.
private, public, statutory (all law) He was charged with committing a public nuisance. 
to I don't want to be a nuisance to you. 
be, feel Robin's hand felt numb with cold.
become, go, turn His fingers were beginning to turn numb. 
from My legs were numb from kneeling. 
numb with (the) cold Their fingers were going numb with cold. 
be, feel, sound Her voice sounded numb.
leave sb The news left us numb and confused. 
totally Laura felt totally numb. 
with He felt numb with weariness and grief. 
according to, by Each pigeon hole is clearly numbered by floor and by room.
from, to Number the car's features from 1 to 10 according to importance. 
hospital, practice, school This is a job for the school nurse.
education > Note at JOB 
practice > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and more nouns) 
inadequate, poor Many children at the school were found to be suffering from inadequate nutrition. 
take We each took an oar.
pull on We pulled hard on the oars.
ship We shipped the oars to get through the narrow opening. 
immediately, instantly She was used to having her orders instantly obeyed.
refuse to He refuses to obey the school rules.
be only obeying orders At the trial the soldiers made the excuse that they were only obeying orders.
a duty/an obligation to obey People have a moral duty to obey the law.
sth has to be/must be obeyed Rules are rules and they must be obeyed. 
everyday, household Her paintings are of ordinary everyday objects. 
sole My sole object is to get to the bottom of this mystery. 
lesson The plans are an object lesson in how to ruin a city centre. 
the object of the exercise The object of the exercise is to score as many points as possible. 
have I'd like to open a window, unless anyone has any objections.
over the ~s of She was appointed over the objections of certain members of the board.
~ to The committee has raised serious objections to the plans. 
stated The legislation has failed to achieve its stated objectives.
common The two groups are pursuing a common objective.
accomplish, achieve, attain, fulfil, meet, reach, succeed in The department needs more money to fulfil its objectives.
agree, define, establish, formulate, identify, set, specify We need to establish a clear objective.
in an/the ~ The party is radical in its objectives.
~ of We succeeded in our prime objective of cutting costs. 
make sth The college authorities have now made these classes obligatory. 
for It is obligatory for vets to be registered. 
virtually Libel plaintiffs are virtually obliged to go into the witness box.
by law, contractually, legally Parents are obliged by law to send their children to school.
morally I felt morally obliged to do the best I could for her. 
for, to I'm much obliged to you for helping us. 
consign to Most of his work has now been consigned to oblivion. 
in ~ He died in oblivion in a remote village. 
become The origins of the tradition have become obscure.
remain The motives behind this decision remain somewhat obscure. 
be plucked from, emerge from After many years, his scientific work emerged from obscurity.
in ~ He spent his early life in relative obscurity. 
for ~ She was admitted to hospital for observation.
under ~ The police have had him under observation for several weeks.
~ of The survey was based on direct observation of over 500 schools. 
about He smiled, and made some observation about the weather.
casual To the casual observer, it would have looked like any other domestic argument.
external, independent, outside Independent observers will monitor the elections.
American, Western, etc.
industry, military Some military observers fear the US could get entangled in another war.
impress, puzzle, strike, surprise The suddenness of this move surprised many observers. 
attend sth The talks were attended by observers from eight Arab countries and Israel.
status The country was granted observer status at the summit. 
as an ~ I attended the conference as an observer. 
make sth, render sth Their work is now rendered obsolete by machines. 
deliberately He doesn't really have an alternative suggestion; he's just being deliberately obstructive. 
many, numerous It was the first of many such occasions.
on an/the ~ The police were called out on 24 separate occasions.
on ~(s) He has even been known to go shopping himself on occasion. 
a number of occasions I have stayed there on a number of occasions.
on one occasion On one occasion he even rang me in the middle of the night.
on that/this ~ On this occasion, as it happens, the engine started immediately. 
arise I'll speak to him if the occasion arises. 
for It should have been an occasion for rejoicing. 
have occasion to do sth Last year we had occasion to visit relatives in Cornwall. 
ceremonial, state The Queen's coach is only used for state occasions. 
rise to The choir rose to the occasion and sang beautifully. 
for all occasions, for every occasion We sell cards and notepaper for all occasions.
a sense of occasion On the day of the wedding there was a real sense of 
female, male Agricultural work is traditionally seen as a male occupation.
follow The people interviewed followed a variety of occupations
give up He gave up his occupation as a farmer and became a teacher.
a range of occupations The college provides training in a wide range of occupations. 
give up The invaders have given up occupation of large parts of the territories.
during the ~ During the occupation, the church was used as a mosque.
under ~ Large parts of Britain were under Roman occupation. 
take up You can only take up occupation once the tenancy has 
in ~ of He intends to remain in occupation of the building for as long as possible. 
ready for occupation The flats will be ready for occupation by March.
unfit for occupation The houses were judged to be unfit for human occupation. 
naturally These chemical changes occur quite naturally.
spontaneously Opportunities for learning occur spontaneously every day. 
open A storm started up once we got out into the open ocean.
across the ~ trade across the Atlantic Ocean
in the ~ Various toxic substances have been dumped in the ocean. 
consider sth, find sth, think sth I find it odd that she takes so long to do that job. I didn't think it odd at the time. 
decidedly, distinctly, extremely, really, very There's something distinctly odd about her.
deeply, gravely, greatly He knew that he had offended her deeply.
easily He was very sensitive and easily offended. 
be likely to Omit anything that is likely to offend people.
be anxious not to, be careful not to, not mean to, take care not to She stopped mid-sentence, anxious not to offend him. 
against Viewers complained that the programme offended against good taste. 
feel/look/sound offended She sounded offended when she replied. 
consider sth, deem sth, find sth, think sth He's always making rude remarks about women. I find that deeply offensive. 
to This sort of attitude is very offensive to black people. 
make (sb) He made me an offer I simply couldn't refuse
~ from I had to turn down a job offer from a theatre because the pay was too low.
~ of They refused our offer of help. 
free I got the conditioner in a free offer with my shampoo.
introductory Your first order is delivered free as an introductory offer. 
on ~ We have a number of bargains on offer. 
high, low We realized we would not get a higher offer.
firm, formal Several people have made enquiries but no one has made a firm offer.
listen to I'll listen to any reasonable offer.
increase, up They just kept upping their offer until I had to say yes. 
under ~ The property is currently under offer to a client.
~ for Several people put in an offer for the house.
~ of They accepted our offer of £80,000. 
be open to offers The asking price is £500 but I'm open to offers.
or near offer They are selling their car for £2,500 or near offer. 
peace I think the present she sent you was intended as a peace offering.
from The latest offering from this young band is their best album yet.
~ to They made sacrificial offerings to the gods. 
commanding, high-ranking, ranking, senior, superior The decision rests with the ranking officer (= the most senior officer present).
duty He telephoned the duty officer at regimental headquarters.
cadet, corps > Note at RANK 
presiding, responsible, supervising Report the incident to the responsible officer. the officer responsible for implementing the scheme
have The charity has a full-time press officer working with the national newspapers. 
duty We spoke to the duty officer at the police station.
raid sth, swoop on sth (informal) Officers raided an address in south London, seizing bomb-making equipment.
arrest sb > See POLICEMAN 
find sth I find it very off-putting when people don't look me in the eye. 
a bit, a little, rather, slightly The noise was rather off-putting. 
catch sb, rule sb an attempt to catch an opponent offside He was ruled offside by the referee. 
rather, slightly He had rather oily hands.
naturally Lank or naturally oil hair is often difficult to care for. 
do, go I think I did OK in the exam. I hope the meeting goes OK. 
perfectly, quite I'm quite OK now, thanks. 
by sb John has suggested meeting at six, and that's OK by me.
~ with sb Is it OK with you if I come about six? 
be, feel, look, seem You are as old as you feel. 
enough He's old enough by now to manage his own affairs. 
be, feel, look, seem, sound The way the young people rushed about made her feel old. He was beginning to look old.
become, get, grow We're all getting older. As they grow older, they develop new interests. 
fairly, quite She was quite old when she got married. 
extremely, really, terribly, very It's a very old tradition.
oldest known These are some of the oldest known fossil remains.
oldest remaining It's one of the oldest remaining parts of the church.
oldest surviving It's the world's oldest surviving ship. 
boring/silly old boring old history books She's a silly old cow!
dear/good old Good old Dad!
funny old It's a funny old world.
poor old You poor old thing!
consumer, insurance, local government, pensions A pensions ombudsman has been appointed. 
by ~ Several offences such as manslaughter may be committed by omission.
an act or omission The accident was not caused by any act or omission of the transport company.
far from The violence was far from one-sided (= both people, teams, etc. were violent).
a little, rather, somewhat Their relationship seems rather one-sided. 
mark His first hit record marked the onset of an astonishing career. 
out Cream oozed out at the sides. 
from Blood oozed slowly from his wound.
out of, with (figurative) He was oozing with contempt for us. 
be, gape, lie, stand The book lay open in front of him. The door stood open.
burst, clang, creak, fall, fly, judder, sag, swing The bag fell open. Suddenly the door flew open. The woman's mouth sagged open. The gate swung open.
fling sth, flip sth, get sth, prise sth, pull sth, push sth, tear sth, throw sth, wrench sth, yank sth She flung the door open and rushed in. She flipped open Chris's diary. He tore the letter open.
have sth, hold sth, keep sth, leave sth She held the door open for them.
find sth, see sth I found the door open. 
fully, wide The door was wide open.
about She's very open about her mistakes.
with I don't think you've been completely open with me. 
remain, stay In spite of the snow, the roads remained open. Some of the supermarkets stay open till ten.
keep sth We want to keep the village store open. 
to The car park is only open to residents. 
declare sth The Australian premier declared the Olympic Games open. 
officially The bridge is officially open now. 
clear (used in the context of sport and games) He missed one of the clearest openings in the game.
create Cooper created the opening for Russell to shoot the first goal.
for, ~ in career openings for biologists in the Ministry of Health 
official, royal, state the state opening of Parliament 
buff, lover > Note at PERFORMANCE(for more verbs) 
have, undergo He had an operation to remove a tumour.
come through, survive She came through the operation very well.
during a/the ~ She woke during the operation.
clean-up, drilling, mining, mopping-up, offensive, peacekeeping, relief, rescue, salvage, security UN troops supervised the relief operations.
begin, launch, mount, undertake The authorities launched a massive security operation in the city.
come into A ceasefire came into operation in May.
cease The factory will cease operation at the end of the year. 
during ~ The machine can get very hot during operation.
in ~ The current tax system has been in operation for ten years. 
fully The new system will not become fully operative until next year. 
conflicting, different, mixed Opinions are mixed regarding genetically-modified food.
honest If you want my honest opinion, I think the book is awful.
second If in doubt about your diagnosis, get a second opinion. 
air, express, give (sb), offer (sb), pass, state, venture, voice The bishop spoke without passing any opinion on the scandal.
ask sb, seek He asked me for my opinion on the course.
form I formed the opinion that he was not to be trusted.
differ, vary Opinions differ as to when this wine should be drunk. 
in your ~ In my opinion, golf is a dull sport.
~ about/on She holds strong opinions on education.
~ of He has a very high opinion of your work. 
in my humble opinion (humorous), a matter of opinion ‘London is wonderful.’ ‘That's a matter of opinion.’ 
general, popular, public Contrary to popular opinion, many adult cats dislike milk.
body This view is supported by a growing body of professional opinion. 
be against sth, be in favour of sth Prevailing local opinion is against the new road proposals.
be divided Public opinion is divided on the subject 
among Opinion among doctors is that the medication is safe. 
face Today she faces her toughest opponent on Centre Court.
bring down, foul > Special page at SPORT 
adamantly, bitterly, fiercely, firmly, hotly, resolutely, strenuously, strongly, vehemently, vigorously, violently We would vigorously oppose such a policy.
totally We totally oppose the use of gas to kill any animal.
successfully, unsuccessfully Environmental lobby groups successfully opposed the plan.
initially The ban was initially opposed by the US.
consistently The minister has consistently opposed any relaxation in the law. 
be the case, be true The oboe tends to lose power in the upper register, but with the clarinet the opposite is the case. 
the ~ of/to Doubt is not the opposite of faith?unbelief is. In temperament, she was the complete opposite to her sister. 
exactly/just/quite the opposite The effect was exactly the opposite to what he intended. 
ever the optimist Pete, ever the optimist, said things were bound to improve. 
have You have the option of taking your holiday early.
with/without the ~ of He was jailed without the option of a fine. 
have little/no option but to We had no option but to leave without them. 
attractive, good Deciding on your best option is not easy.
easy, soft He thought General Studies would be a soft option.
choose, exercise, select, take Look at the on-screen menu and select the ‘File’ option.
look at Let's look at all the options available. 
exercise, take (up) She took up an option in her contract to buy three million shares. 
on He's promised me first option on his car. 
eccentric Mercury's orbit is fairly eccentric.
complete, make The spaceship made an orbit of the moon. 
in ~ The satellite will remain in orbit for several years.
subject sb to She was subjected to a terrible six-day ordeal.
by (often humorous) This is the fourth time the prime minister has faced ordeal by egg (= had eggs thrown at him).
~ of They were spared the ordeal of giving evidence in court. 
personally The army's Chief of Staff had personally ordered the raid.
about, around Stop ordering me around!
back, home, off, out There were seven bookings and two players were ordered off. 
off, out of All journalists have been ordered out of the country. 
for We can order the book for you, if you like.
from You can order the book direct from the publisher. 
alphabetically, chronologically, hierarchically, logically The entries are ordered alphabetically. 
according to Different senses of a word are ordered according to frequency. 
highly/well ordered She led a highly ordered existence, with everything having its own time and place. 
decidedly, terribly, very He made all the other players on the field look decidedly ordinary.
perfectly, quite It was a perfectly ordinary day.
fairly, pretty, rather The meal was pretty ordinary.
important, vital The eyes are an important organ of balance. to preserve blood flow to the brain and the other vital organs
electric, electronic, Hammond (R)
loft > Special page at MUSIC 
disband (For more verbs see note.) 
in a/the ~ There are several talented people in that organization. > Special page at BUSINESS 
lack > Note at ORGANIZATION 
extremely, highly, strongly, very Although it doesn't look like it, the whole thing is highly organized.
formally Often there is no formally organized system of childcare.
hierarchically, sequentially Each department is hierarchically organized.
get You need to get organized. 
recent The term ‘black hole’ is of very recent origin.
immediate The development had its immediate origins in discussions with management.
African, English, etc.
animal, human, mineral, plant, vegetable foods of animal origin We shouldn't forget our animal origins. 
have, share The vases share common origins.
owe Population genetics owes its origin to Francis Galton.
go back to sth, lie in sth The origins of Gdansk go back to the tenth century. 
in ~ The rock is volcanic in origin.
sth's country of origin Bottles are labelled by country of origin.
have its origin in sth The dispute had its origin in the Battle of Wakefield. 
frican, English, etc.
humble, lowly He had risen from humble origins through hard work. 
trace Their family can trace its origins back to the Norman Conquest.
betray Her accent betrayed her working-class origins. 
by ~ He is a Londoner by origin.
in ~ Her family is Portuguese in origin.
of … ~ He was of lowly origins. 
pass sth off as He copied paintings of famous artists and passed them off as originals. 
in the ~ to read Tolstoy in the original 
purely The turrets are purely ornamental. 
be left She was left an orphan at the age of five.
Catholic, Christian, etc.
lead to the events that led to the outbreak of World War I 
of A new outbreak of smallpox occurred in 1928. 
social He was treated as a social outcast. 
make sb Her criminal past made her an outcast.
cause, provoke, spark The bombing caused an international outcry. 
against/over There was a massive public outcry against the harsh prison sentence.
from The children were on a day's outing from school.
DIY, fast-food, etc. 
provide (sb with) Sport provided an outlet for his energy.
for She needs an outlet for her talents. 
roughly He roughly outlined the plot of the opera.
to the policies outlined to Parliament on May 20th 
considerably, easily, far, greatly, heavily, substantially, vastly Their failures vastly outnumber their successes.
by The Czechs outnumbered the Slovaks by at least two to one. 
be hopelessly outnumbered The Spanish were hopelessly outnumbered in the battle. 
moral Media reports generated moral outrage. 
be greeted with, cause, generate, provoke, spark The news was greeted with outrage.
express, voice Shopkeepers voiced their outrage at the new tax. 
be directed at sb/sth Much of the outrage was directed at foreign nationals. 
in ~ The guests all shouted in outrage.
with ~ She was trembling with outrage.
~ at Campaigners have expressed outrage at the decision.
~ over There is widespread public outrage over the massacre. 
cries/howls of outrage The announcement provoked howls of outrage.
against The new law on pensions is an outrage against the elderly. 
feel I felt a complete outsider. 
in The firm has gone from being an outsider in the market to being a market leader. 
absolutely, quite That was a quite outstanding performance! 
be, remain Two or three tasks still remain outstanding.
leave sth One option may be to leave the debt outstanding and extend the payment terms. 
almost The leaves are long and almost oval. 
oval in shape The handle is oval in shape
hot, low, moderate, warm Bake them in a warm oven until risen and golden brown.
clay Tandoori food is cooked in a clay oven. 
heat, preheat Preheat the oven to 190°C.
heat (up) Switch on the oven and let it heat up.
in an/the ~ baking bread in the oven > Special page at FOOD 
tweed > Special page at CLOTHES 
free We offer a free £400 overdraft.
run up The president ran up a huge overdraft during her year in office.
exceed They exceeded their overdraft by £200,000. 
long These reforms are long overdue. 
for This system is overdue for reform. 
months/weeks/years overdue These changes are years overdue. 
completely The path was completely overgrown. 
with The canal bank was thickly overgrown with last year's brambles. 
drastically, radically Within a year the party had drastically overhauled its structure.
completely, thoroughly The plan was completely overhauled. 
couldn't help overhearing sth Excuse me for interrupting, but I couldn't help overhearing what you were saying. 
partially, partly, slightly, to some extent Put the two pieces of paper together so that they overlap slightly. The two categories overlap to some extent.
conveniently Conveniently overlooking the fact that she wouldn't be able to meet the commitment, she agreed enthusiastically. 
cannot, cannot afford to, should not We should not overlook this possibility.
be inclined to, tend to Hospitals have tended to overlook this need.
be prepared to, be willing to I was prepared to overlook her mistakes this time.
be easy to It is easy to overlook the significance of this change.
sth should not be overlooked The importance of this should not be overlooked. 
by (an) ~ By an oversight, we did not send out the agenda for the meeting.
due to (an) ~ The mistake was due to an unfortunate oversight on my part.
through (an) ~ Through oversight, the bill was still unpaid. 
excessive Doctors work excessive unpaid overtime.
do, put in, work I do about five hours' overtime a week. She puts in a lot of overtime. 
ban The union imposed an overtime ban in protest at the sacking of two workers. 
reject, spurn She spurned his overtures of love. 
~s to He made friendly overtures to his new neighbours. 
to the overture to Mozart's ‘Don Giovanni’ 
historical The opening chapter gives a brief historical overview of transport. 
have Only the Head of Sales has an overview of the situation worldwide. 
on The seminar aims to provide an overview on new media publishing. 
threaten to Deal with stress fast whenever it threatens to overwhelm you. 
with The children pressed around him eagerly, overwhelming him with questions. 
be/feel overwhelmed (by/with sth) We were totally overwhelmed by the response to our appeal. She felt completely overwhelmed. 
catch sth, prey on sth Owls prey on small rodents.
part I'm part owner of the restaurant.
lawful, legal, rightful The stolen painting has now been returned to its rightful owner.
have The car had only one previous owner.
trace The police have been unable to trace the owner of the vehicle. 
generate, produce, release After dark the plants stop producing oxygen.
get, receive The patient didn't seem to be getting enough oxygen.
deprive sb/sth of, starve sb/sth of There was a risk the brain might be starved of oxygen. 
the loss of/reduction in ozone the discovery of massive springtime reductions in ozone over Antarctica 
anxiously, nervously, restlessly She paced restlessly up and down.
about/around/round, back and forth, to and fro, up and down He paced slowly back and forth. 
begin pacing She began pacing round the room. 
tightly Live animals are transported across the continent, packed tightly into lorries.
away, together, up The passengers travelled packed together like cattle. I think we might as well pack up and go home. 
in, into She packed her clothes into a suitcase. 
into Crowds of people packed into the hall. 
be packed full of sth Our new brochure is packed full of inspirational ideas.
be packed out The cinema was packed out!
be packed to bursting/capacity/overflowing The hall was packed to capacity.
be packed to the gunwales/rafters The hostel was packed to the rafters.
be packed with sb The place was packed with football fans.
fancy, glossy CDs would be far cheaper to produce without the glossy packaging.
do When shall we do the packing? 
postage and packing All prices include postage and packing. 
on a/the~ She doodled on a pad as she spoke. 
frantically, furiously He paddled furiously against the current.
be The operation was relatively painless. 
badly, crudely The walls had been painted very badly. a crudely painted human figure
on I like to paint on canvas.
with Paint the box all over with varnish. 
freshly/newly painted, paint sth blue, white, etc. We painted the walls light green. 
do I'll do some painting this afternoon.
take up When she retired she took up painting. 
painting and decorating The firm specializes in painting and decorating. 
original The design is based on an original painting by Matisse.
Cubist, Impressionist, Old Master, etc.
do, execute, paint, work on Degas did several paintings of ballet dancers.
collect She collects paintings by nineteenth-century Australian artists.
hang His most famous paintings hang in the Tate Gallery. 
in a/the ~ The woman in the painting is the artist's mistress.
~ by a painting by Gauguin
~ of paintings of flowers > Note at ART 
veritable (figurative) Even this small house was a veritable palace compared to his tent.
stand The palace stands on the west bank of the river. 
coup, revolution The king was deposed by his son in a palace coup. 
become, go, grow, turn Ruth went pale as the news sank in.
deathly, extremely, sickly, terribly, very He turned deathly pale.
pale and drawn He looked pale and drawn. 
hold up, raise He held up a palm for silence.
spread He spread his palms in a gesture of openness.
press I pressed my palm to the wound to stop the bleeding.
slap She slapped her palm against the desk in anger. 
face Hold out your arms with the palms facing downwards. 
against your ~s The metal felt hot against my palms.
between your ~s He took her hand between his palms and squeezed it.
in your ~ He showed me the coins in his palm. 
palm/palms up/upwards She held out her hand to me, palm up. 
pots and pans > See SAUCEPAN (for other collocates of pan) 
missing The missing pane has been replaced.
blow in/out The wind blew in a pane of their front window.
against/to a/the ~ Her face was pressed against the pane.
down a/the ~ The rain ran down the window pane.
on a/the ~ There was dirt on the pane. 
a pane of glass The burglars got in by smashing a pane of glass in a door. 
experience, feel, suffer He experienced a sudden pang of conscience.
cause, give sb The photograph gave her a pang of homesickness. 
shoot through sb A sharp pang of guilt shot through him. 
with a ~ With a pang she recalled the last time she had seen him.
~ of She felt a little pang of jealousy. 
for He was panting for breath.
with She was panting with the effort of carrying the suitcase. 
puff and pant Mason puffed and panted up the stairs. 
wet He was so frightened that he wet his pants. 
bra and pants > Special page at CLOTHES 
original The book is to be published as an original paperback (= it is not being published in hardback first). 
be out in, come out in The novel has just come out in paperback. 
come out The paperback came out in June. 
in ~ The book is now available in paperback. 
descent, drop, jump He made his first parachute jump at the age of seventy.
by ~ Supplies were dropped by parachute. 
go to They all expected to go to paradise. 
create She worked on the garden until she had created her own little paradise.
find They moved to the country hoping to find paradise. 
in (a) ~ We found ourselves in a tropical paradise.
~ for The airport is a paradise for pickpockets.
curiously He found himself in a curiously paradoxical situation. 
to The lane is roughly parallel to the main road.
with The road runs parallel with the sea. 
partially, partly He was partially paralysed by the fall.
be paralysed from the chest/neck/waist down, be paralysed with fear, leave sb paralysed The accident left her paralysed. 
border on, verge on Her passion for cleanliness borders on paranoia. 
make sth (up) into, pack (up), wrap, wrap sth (up) in The waiter had our left-over food made up into a parcel to take home.
laden/loaded with parcels He came in laden with parcels for the children. 
proud They have just become the proud parents of a baby girl.
working The government has promised a better deal for working parents. 
company The subsidiary eventually outgrew its parent company and took it over. 
national The mountain has been designated as a national park.
go to They go to the park most Sunday afternoons.
ranger The lion was shot dead by a park ranger. 
at a/the ~ We met at Hyde Park.
in a/the ~ They went for a walk in the park. 
bay, place, space, spot a restaurant with ample parking space I spent ages looking for a parking place/space.
get She's got (her) parole.
let sb out on, release sb on She was released on parole after serving just half of her sentence.
break He broke (his) parole.
be eligible for, be/come up for Her case comes up for parole in September. 
on ~ He committed a burglary while on parole.
with ~ With parole, he could be out in two years.
big, good, greater, large, major, significant, substantial We spent a good part of the day rehearsing. The greater part of the building has been refurbished.
equal Cut it into four equal parts.
worst The worst part was having to wait three hours.
difficult, hard I gave up once I got to the hard part.
early In the early part of his career he worked in India.
component, constituent Break it down into its constituent parts.
constitute, fall into, form The book falls into three distinct parts.
in ~ Your salary depends in part on your qualifications. The film is good in parts. a serial in four parts
~ of Part of me wants to stay and part of me doesn't. 
spare Where can I get spare parts for my bike? 
look He was a pirate in the school play and certainly looked the part. 
in the ~ He's very good in the part.
~ of She played the part of Juliet. 
big, leading, major Luck played a big part in it.
have He had no part in the scam.
do, play, take She did her part in bringing them back together. 
in They took little part in the discussion. 
unwilling, willing She was an unwilling participant in his downfall.
attract Protests on 12 April attracted 100,000 participants. 
audience, employee, student, worker Some of the magic tricks called for audience participation. 
degree, extent, level We were very pleased with the high level of participation in the charity events. 
encourage The scheme aims to encourage increased participation in sporting activities.
divide sth (up), separate sth The cafe was divided up by glass partitions. 
between There were no partitions between the showers. 
working We are trying to develop a working partnership between local schools and industries.
enter into, go into The company has gone into partnership with Swiss Bank Corporation.
take sb into We took him into partnership in 2002.
work in We shall be working in close partnership with our Japanese clients.
in ~ with They are in partnership with Apex software.
~ in She has a partnership in the business.
~ with a partnership with an American firm > Note at ORGANIZATION 
forward (in rugby) The referee disallowed the try for a forward pass. 
play Ziege played a pass behind the defence to Weiss.
from Owen picked up a long pass from Beckham to score.
~ to He played a careless back pass to the goalkeeper. 
exam, examination, A Level, GCSE, etc. 
get, manage, obtain, scrape She barely scraped a pass in chemistry. 
mark, rate The pass mark is 40%.
degree Applicants need a good degree pass. 
at It's difficult to obtain a pass at A Level.
~ in He should get a good pass in mathematics. 
give sb, issue (sb with) The visitors were issued with day passes.
~ to We bought a two-day pass to Disneyland. 
~ over We took the high pass over the ridge. 
force He forced a passage for the singer through the crowd. 
along/down/through a/the~ We ran through the dark passage.
in/into a/the ~ Someone was waiting outside in the passage.
~ from There is an underground passage from the church to the house.
the end of a passage There was a door at the end of the passage.
in a/the ~ There's a lot of slang in this passage.
~ from a passage from the Bible 
play, quote In the 15th symphony he quotes a passage from Rossini's ‘William Tell’ overture. 
free The UN Security Council has demanded free passage for families fleeing from the fighting. 
~ down Steps cut in the hillside give walkers an easy passage down the mountain.
~ from … to … We are not aware of our passage from consciousness to sleep.
~ into Portugal's passage into the next round of the tournament
~ over State-of-the-art suspension guarantees a smooth passage over the bumpiest road.
~ through They denied him passage through the territory. 
the passage of time The problems only got worse with the passage of time.
a rite of passage Marriage is seen as a rite of passage. 
work He worked his passage (= he worked to pay for his journey) to Australia. 
during a/the ~ During the passage, she taught herself basic Arabic.
on sb's/the ~ We met him on our outward passage.
~ across a rough passage across the Atlantic
~ to We had a stormy passage to India. 
begin, complete The bill will complete its passage in November. 
during the ~ There was much controversy during the passage of the bill.
~ through a strategy to ensure the bill's smooth passage through Parliament 
mourn Few will mourn his passing.
mark Her death marks the passing of an era. 
the passing of time The colour of the wood darkens with the passing of time. 
essentially The heroine plays an essentially passive role in the drama. 
user Please supply a valid user password. 
give You must give the password before they'll let you in.
be password protected Your mailbox can be password protected to ensure security. 
dish, salad > Special page at FOOD 
national Eating out is the national pastime in France. 
among Fighting is a popular pastime among some of the town's boys.
~ for Cycling is an enjoyable pastime for people of all ages. 
give sb/sth He gave the dog a pat. 
on He gave her a reassuring pat on the shoulder. 
have Her trousers have patches all over them.
bald He has a small bald patch on the crown of his head.
in ~es The velvet curtains were faded in patches.
~ of There were some patches of clear blue sky.
~ on A large damp patch had appeared on the ceiling. 
a patch of grass/ground We found a nice patch of grass to sit on. 
purple The team has hit a purple patch, with nine wins from their last ten games. 
go through, have, hit Their business hit a sticky patch last year. 
apply for, file In 1843 Bain filed a patent for his fax machine.
protect sth by Genetically engineered plants can be protected by patent.
refuse A patent will be refused if details of the item have already been released to the public.
Office 
for In 1995 he was granted a patent for his invention.
~ on Edison took out a patent on the light bulb. 
patent pending (= waiting to be issued) The item is Patent Pending No. 912057. 
Home Office, police 
confirm sth The police pathologist examined the body and confirmed that death was due to poisoning. 
about She's been extremely patient about it all.
with He was endlessly patient with the children. 
unashamedly The party framed its message in unashamedly patriotic language. 
a patron of the arts The BBC is a major patron of the arts. 
down The rain pattered down softly. 
across Footsteps pattered across the floor.
against, along The child's feet pattered along the landing.
on Rain pattered lightly on the window. 
briefly, (for) a moment, (for) an instant, momentarily She paused a moment and then walked away.
barely, hardly He spoke for two hours and barely paused for breath.
deliberately She paused deliberately, her eyes holding his.
pause for breath/thought, pause only (long enough) to do sth Pausing only to put out her cigarette, she left the room.
pause to consider/look/reflect/think Just pause to think before giving me your answer.
without pausing Without pausing to knock, she opened the door. 
full, half He has taken leave on half pay.
back The workers are demanding their back pay.
level, rate The job offers good rates of pay and excellent conditions. 
scale, structure He's at the top of his company's pay scale. 
on … ~ Women are eligible for 18 weeks maternity leave on full pay.
without ~ He has been suspended without pay. 
make sth Cheques should be made payable to Brighton Borough Council. 
immediately This amount is payable immediately. 
on No tax is payable on these earnings.
to An initial fee is payable to the franchiser. 
soup > Special page at FOOD 
wholly The aims of the organization are wholly peaceful.
blissfully, delightfully, serenely The time without her in the house had been blissfully peaceful. 
burst into, give, let out He burst into peals of laughter. She let out a peal of laughter.
with a ~ The bishop was welcomed to the church with a peal of bells.
a peal of bells/laughter/thunder > Note at SOUND 
ring (out) The bells of the cathedral rang out their loud peal. 
have The area has a few local peculiarities. 
about I noticed a certain peculiarity about his appearance. 
fast, furiously, hard, like mad, madly He pedalled furiously up the hill.
away She pedalled away as fast as she could. 
along, down, up He pedalled along the lane and up the hill. 
do, have, take I'm going to have a pee.
be bursting for, be desperate for, need, want I need a pee really badly.
out He peeped out cautiously from behind the door. 
at She was tempted to peep at the letter.
through The child peeped through a crack in the door. 
around/round, down, in, inside, out, up, upwards A face was peering down at him. 
around/round, at His pale blue eyes peered anxiously at Vic.
into She peered round into the farmyard.
out of She peered out of the window.
past, through I peered through the letter box. 
unfairly, wrongly He claims he was unfairly penalized.
for Students will be penalized for mistakes in spelling and grammar. 
as a ~ He devoted his life to helping the poor as a penance for his past crimes.
in ~ She knelt at her mother's feet in penance.
~ for He decided to do public penance for his sins. 
hardly The sunlight hardly penetrated the inner room.
slowly The news slowly penetrated his consciousness.
easily, readily These so-called secret societies were easily penetrated by intelligence agents.
seem to The cold seemed to penetrate his bones.
allow sth to Cut two slashes on each side of the fish to allow heat to penetrate. 
into It is not yet known how deeply the radiation has penetrated into the soil.
through The light could not penetrate through the thick curtains.
to The dust had penetrated to all corners of the room. 
draw, get, receive He draws his pension at the post office.
claim, qualify for You will have to find out whether or not you qualify for a pension.
live on She lives on her pension and her savings. 
on a ~ He is now retired and on a pension. 
add, put in/on, season sth with, sprinkle He put some pepper on his steak.
salt and pepper Add salt and pepper to taste (= in the quantity preferred). 
stuffed peppers stuffed with meat and rice > Special page at FOOD 
account for, amount to, be equal to, constitute, equal, represent Overseas earnings accounted for 9% of the total last year.
contain Roman coins containing about 25% zinc
reach, stand at Their share of the vote reached 6.5% in 1998.
(All the verbs in the following collocate groups may be followed by by, from or to plus per cent. Sometimes the word by is left out.), be/go/shoot up, expand, grow, improve, increase, jump, rise, soar Prices rose by 12% in 1998. Prices rose 12%.
be/go/come down, decline, decrease, depreciate, drop, fall, plummet, plunge, shrink Profitability is down from 16% to 12.2%.
cut sth, devalue sth, reduce sth, slash sth The currency was devalued 20% overnight. 
~ of sth In 40% of all cases, the parents had no idea of their child's problem. 
about/around/only/over/up to 10, 20, etc. per cent ~ Only 10% of the teenagers agreed with this statement. a process that can reduce the cost by up to 15%
a cut/decline/decrease/drop/fall/reduction of 10, 20, etc. per cent, fewer/less/more than 10, 20, etc. per cent Profits rose by more than 50% last year.
growth of 10, 20, etc. per cent, in the bottom/top 10, 20, etc. per cent His son was in the top 2% of the university's students.
10, 20, etc. per cent less/more New cars will use about 35% less fuel by the year 2001.
10, 20, etc. per cent of all/of a total The tribe's land now amounts to around 50% of the total land area. > Note at PERCENT 
barely, hardly, scarcely His lips curved in a barely perceptible smile. 
to The difference is scarcely perceptible to the average reader. 
about He's very perceptive about people. 
section > Special page at MUSIC 
seek, strive for She strives for perfection in everything.
close to ~ The cooking was close to perfection.
near ~ A night's labour brought the sculpture one step nearer perfection.
to ~ (= perfectly) The dress fitted to perfection.
a degree/point of perfection He brought the art of photography to the highest point of perfection.
a model of perfection The building became the model of perfection that architects sought to emulate.
the pursuit of perfection She sometimes stayed up painting all night in her pursuit of perfection.
repeat The party are dreading a repeat performance of their defeat in the last election.
give, put on The theatre is putting on a performance of the popular musical ‘Cats’.
in ~ The course aims to develop the children's appreciation of music in performance. 
brilliant, convincing, dazzling, electrifying, excellent, fine, flawless, good, great, impressive, inspired, outstanding, polished, remarkable, sparkling, spirited, strong, superb, wonderful The recording gives the most convincing performance of Stravinsky's ‘Rite of Spring’ to date. the country's strong economic performance over the last two years
central Mel Gibson's central performance in the film as Hamlet
all-round, overall He got top marks for overall academic performance.
deliver, give, put in The team put in an excellent performance at the World Cup.
as her fine performance as Ophelia
~ from The film has a great performance from Jack Lemmon.
on past performance Sales forecasts were based on past performance.
enhance, improve > Note at PERFORMANCE 
dab on, put on, spray on She dabbed some perfume on her wrists.
reek of, smell of She reeked of cheap perfume. 
a waft/whiff of perfume He caught a faint whiff of her expensive French perfume. 
give off, release The lilies release their heady perfume in the evening. 
fill sth The perfume of the roses filled the room. 
mark The river marks the eastern perimeter of our land. 
along the ~ I lugged my suitcase along the perimeter of the square.
around/round the ~ We walked round the perimeter of the prison.
inside/outside the ~ They demonstrated just outside the perimeter of the embassy.
on the ~ There's a small shop on the perimeter of the camp. 
highly Many fresh foods are highly perishable. 
make sth We decided to make the arrangement permanent. 
express Staff may not leave early without the express permission of the director.
necessary They chopped the trees down without having been granted the necessary permission.
prior He was not allowed to leave the city without the prior permission of the authorities.
planning You will need to obtain planning permission if you want to extend your house. 
with/without sb's ~ The information was published with the full permission of Amnesty International.
~ for The council refused planning permission for the erection of a block of flats.
by (kind) permission of sb The illustrations are reproduced by kind permission of the British Library. 
by ~ Entry is by permit only.
with/without a ~ You can't park here without a permit.
~ for They applied for a permit for a street demonstration against university fees. 
to The axis of the moon will now be exactly perpendicular to that of the earth. 
a little, rather, slightly, somewhat Gary looked rather perplexed. 
have Does she have the perseverance to finish the work?
display, show He showed great perseverance by staying in the job.
require, take It may take some perseverance to find the right people. 
with ~ Anyone can learn Japanese with perseverance.
~ with His perseverance with the new technique paid off. 
be rewarded, pay off My persistence in demanding my rights finally paid off. 
by ~ By sheer persistence, I eventually got her to change her mind.
through ~ He achieved success through dogged persistence. 
rational, reasonable, sensible Any reasonable person can see that it is not fair.
private She is a warm but very private person.
right, wrong She's the right person for the job. The police now realize that they had the wrong person.
as a ~ What's she like as a person?
in ~ She appeared in person to collect her prize.
in the ~ of Help arrived in the person of our next-door neighbour. 
the person concerned The disciplinary panel will notify the person concerned of its findings.
the person in charge Can I speak to the person in charge, please?
the person responsible Police think they have found the person responsible for the of muggings. 
multiple, split He developed a split personality after the crash. 
be, have Barbara is/has a very forceful personality.
express, reflect His choice of clothes reflects his personality.
suit The job didn't really suit my personality. 
test All candidates have to undergo a personality test.
an aspect of your personality For the first time she was seeing the more unpleasant aspects of her husband's personality.
a clash of personalities, the force/power/strength of your personality He has achieved success by the sheer strength of his personality.
impose/stamp your personality on sth She stamped her personality on the whole programme. 
media, radio, television/TV 
cult the personality cult surrounding Stalin 
in ~, out of ~ That tree is out of perspective. 
proper, true We can now see things in their true perspective.
get sth in/into, place sth in/into, put sth in/into, see sth in Her death put everything else into perspective.
gain, get, put When you reach middle age you get a different perspective on life. This website puts a completely different perspective on world news.
adopt The book adopts a historical perspective.
from the ~ of We should view this from the perspective of the people involved.
in/into ~ Let's get this into perspective.
~ on/upon It's easy to lose perspective on things when you are under stress. 
heavily, profusely He had been working hard and was perspiring profusely.
with She was perspiring a little with the heat. 
use I had to use a little gentle persuasion to get her to agree.
need, take She didn't need much persuasion.
be/seem open to He refused my offer at first, but seemed open to persuasion. 
the art of persuasion She is very charming, and skilled in the art of persuasion. 
of all/different/varying persuasions The meeting is open to people of all political persuasions. 
to The issues dealt with in the report are highly pertinent to our own situation. 
deeply, very This kind of reasoning is deeply perverse.
deliberately Had you truly forgotten or were you just being deliberately perverse? 
display He displayed his usual pessimism.
about There were good grounds for pessimism about future progress. 
sex (in newspapers) Police are looking for a sex pest who is frightening late-night travellers. 
control, eradicate These birds provide a useful function in controlling insect pests. 
lead-free, ultra-low sulphur (= ULSP), unleaded
leaded, lead replacement (= LRP)
run on, take, use My car runs on unleaded petrol.
run out of We ran out of petrol and had to walk to the nearest garage.
douse sb/sth in/with, pour Thugs poured petrol over a schoolboy and tried to set him alight.
smell (of) Can you smell petrol? The air smelled of petrol. 
distinct The period can be divided into three distinct phases. 
begin, enter, open, start Society has entered a technological phase of evolution.
go through It's just a phase he's going through.
during a/the ~ During the first phase of expansion staff will move to the new offices.
in a/the ~ In the earliest phase of mental disorder, relatives feel confused.
~ in a new phase in the European economy 
investigate His job is to investigate supernatural phenomena. 
emerge, occur The phenomenon occurs during early foetal development. 
become, get The debate was getting too philosophical for me. 
be Try to be philosophical about it.
about Mum's being quite philosophical about the whole thing. 
about/of sth He has a phobia about snakes. 
signed His most treasured possession is a signed photo of his footballing hero.
action The annual has a good range of features and colour action photos.
get, take I got some great photos of the party. Can I have my photo taken with you?
develop I can't wait till the photos have been developed.
make The sun rising over the horizon would have made a good photo. 
call, opportunity, session, shoot The press followed the president round the hospital, waiting for a photo opportunity.
booth We found a photo booth on the station.
in a/the ~ Tell me who everyone is in the photo.
~ of a photo of my son Edmund 
black-and-white, colour, coloured, sepia, tinted Tinted photographs were an early substitute for colour.
blurred, fuzzy, grainy, out of focus This photograph is out of focus.
cover, magazine, newspaper, press The cover photograph of one magazine showed a dying soldier.
facial Send a recent facial photograph of yourself with your application.
still Frame the subject in the video viewfinder as you would for a still photograph.
get, take Did you manage to get a photograph of the goal? I spent the day taking photographs of the city.
scan (in) I scanned in some photographs of the family to send to friends by email.
touch up The photograph has been touched up to conceal her double chin.
mount I cropped the photograph and mounted it on some card.
make The sun rising over the horizon would have made a good photograph. 
appear Her photograph appeared in all the papers.
capture sth The photograph manages to capture the excitement of the occasion. 
in a/the ~ The wing is assembled as shown in the photograph below.
~ of An aerial photograph of the field shows clearly where the buildings were. 
photograph courtesy (of) … photograph courtesy Liverpool Evening News (= acknowledging permission to publish a photograph) > Note at ART 
carefully The statement was very carefully phrased.
differently I should have phrased my question differently. 
to physician to the Duke of Albemarle > Note at DOCTOR(for verbs) 
atomic, high-energy, mathematical, medical, Newtonian, nuclear, (elementary) particle, quantum
A-level
the laws of physics > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
have, receive, undergo I'm undergoing regular physiotherapy for a back problem. 
bar There is a piano bar for evening entertainment. 
on the ~ playing classical music on the piano > Special page at MUSIC 
at random Names were picked at random out of a hat.
out He was picked out as the best player. 
as They picked Jane as the captain.
for Have you been picked for the team? 
freshly picked freshly picked strawberries PHRASAL VERBS pick sth up 
carefully, gingerly Rather gingerly, George picked up the tiny bundle.
idly I idly picked up a magazine and flicked through it. 
by He picked the pan up carefully by the handle.
from, off She stooped to pick the book up off the floor. 
colour in The book has simple stories and pictures to colour in.
get, snap, take I got some good pictures of the procession.
in a/the ~ I can't see you in the picture. The story is told in pictures.
~ of It's a picture of a country village. > Note at ART 
vivid The book gives a vivid picture of life in Victorian England.
complete, comprehensive, full, general, overall, total, whole The programme was interesting but it didn't give the full picture.
broad My visits enabled me to build up a broad picture of the culture.
composite Through interviews and old photos we put together a composite picture of life in the village a hundred years ago.
bleak, depressing, dismal, gloomy, grim, negative The report paints a dismal picture of the government's economic record.
mental I tried to form a mental picture of the building being described.
build (up), construct, create, develop, establish, form, gain, get, obtain, put together They're trying to build up a detailed picture of the incident.
give, paint, present, project, reveal The figures reveal a disturbing picture of the state of our schools.
conjure up The smell of the sea conjures up pictures of children playing on the beach. 
emerge What emerges is a complex picture of family rivalry. 
little, short, small, tiny The plate smashed into little pieces on the stone floor.
bite-sized The book breaks the information into bite-sized pieces.
odd She makes her sculptures out of odd pieces of scrap metal. 
in ~s The vase was now in pieces on the kitchen floor.
~ of a piece of bread A few pieces of the jigsaw were missing. 
bits and pieces I just need to get a few bits and pieces at the supermarket.
break/smash into pieces The cake just broke into pieces when I cut it.
come to pieces This chair comes to pieces.
fall to pieces My old dictionary is falling to pieces.
piece by piece We'll need to take the engine apart, piece by piece.
smash sth to pieces, take sth to pieces Can I take this jigsaw to pieces?
tear sth into/to pieces She tore the letter into tiny pieces. 
amazing, beautiful, brilliant, fine, good, impressive, lovely, magnificent, marvellous, remarkable, superb, wonderful The best pieces include three paintings by El Greco.
effective, powerful This is an effective piece of writing.
short a short piece by Willie Simmonds on television satire
companion a companion piece to the portrait of Gauguin's empty chair
compose, produce, write He hasn't produced a single piece of writing this year.
by They are exhibiting two important pieces by Calder.
~ from She read a piece from ‘Alice in Wonderland’.
a piece of music/sculpture/work/writing > Note at ART 
strut A pigeon strutted along the roof, cooing rhythmically.
up We piled the boxes up neatly. 
against We piled sandbags against the door.
on, onto She piled food onto our plates.
on top of They piled stones on top of the mound.
during a/the ~ There was a ban on political protests during the pilgrimage.
on a/the ~ He was on his annual pilgrimage to Mecca when he fell ill.
~ to His parents made a pilgrimage to Lourdes. 
a centre/place of pilgrimage, an object of pilgrimage The shrine was an object of pilgrimage. 
hold sth up, support sth The roof is supported by eight massive stone pillars. 
behind a/the ~ I hid behind a pillar when I saw my former teacher.
fluff (up), plump up, pummel, punch She plumped up the pillows for her sick daughter.
fall/lie/sink back against/on He lay back on his pillows and closed his eyes.
bury your face/head in She buried her head in the pillow and wept. 
drive in, stick in The map had a lot of little pins stuck into it.
together Apply pressure to the nose by pinching the nostrils firmly together. 
between He pinched the leaf between his thumb and forefinger.
on He pinched me sharply on the arm. 
badly My shoes were pinching badly. 
glow The western sky was glowing pink. 
coral, pearly, rose, salmon > Special page at COLOUR 
go, grow, turn She could feel herself going pink. 
with He was pink with anger. 
can/could With this you can pinpoint the precise location of the sound.
as Stress at work was pinpointed as the cause of his illness. 
supply sth The pipeline supplies Jordan with 15 per cent of its crude oil.
pass through sth, run through sth The pipeline runs through central Mozambique.
link sth The pipeline links the refinery with the port. 
in the ~ (figurative) (= being discussed or prepared) Important changes are already in the pipeline.
~ through the construction of a gas pipeline through Morocco 
open They extract the mineral from open pits and underground mines. 
go down He went down the pit at the age of fifteen. 
village There's no more work in these pit villages.
in a/the ~ Most boys in the village worked in the pits. 
violently The explosion pitched her violently into the air.
from There was a loud bang and he was pitched from his seat.
into If they hit any unseen obstacle they would be pitched headlong into the snow.
violently The boat pitched violently in a heavy swell. 
deliberately Estimates have been deliberately pitched on the conservative side. 
at The test is pitched at a high GCSE standard. 
pitch sth high/low The price has been pitched quite high. Her voice was pitched low. 
out of ~ I threw the child some money out of pity.
~ for She was full of pity for him. 
a feeling/sense of pity, have pity on sb We begged him to have pity on us.
an object of pity Deaf people do not want to be seen as objects of pity.
take pity on sb I took pity on him and allowed him to stay. 
about The place was lovely, but it was a pity about the weather. 
a bit of a pity, rather/such a pity That would be rather a pity, wouldn't it?
what a pity What a pity you didn't tell me earlier! 
terrible It was a terrible place to live.
safe Keep your purse in a safe place.
right, suitable I happened to be in the right place at the right time.
beautiful, nice It's a nice place you've got here.
mark I forgot to mark my place (= in a book).
lose I've lost my place in the script. 
at/in a/the ~ We had dinner at a crowded place in Soho.
in ~ It was held in place with tape. There will be rain in places.
into ~ She tapped the lid into place.
out of ~ Some of these files seem to be out of place. 
all over the place (= everywhere), no place/not the place This is not the place for an argument.
a place of birth/business/interest/learning/work/worship Please state your date and place of birth. 
sit (down) in, take We took our places round the table.
go back to, return to The boy returned to his place
lose I've lost my place in the queue.
change, swap He swapped places with me.
show sb to She showed them to their places.
lay, set I've laid four places for dinner. 
the place of honour He took the place of honour on his hostess's right. 
special He holds a special place in her affections
have, hold, occupy Housing occupied a prominent place in the discussions.
know She knows her place.
forget I'm sorry?I was forgetting my place.
restore sth to He has been restored to his rightful place in the community.
put sb in At first he tried to take charge of the meeting but I soon put her in her place. 
in Dance has a central place in their culture. 
it's not sb's place to It's not your place to correct her.
lose He was injured and lost his place in the side. 
at/in He was awarded a place at Leeds University.
~ on She got a place on the French course. 
finish in, take She took third place. 
go to sb Second place went to the Moroccan athlete. 
great Nearly a third of the population died in the Great Plague. 
suffer The region has just suffered a plague of locusts.
break out, start, strike (sth) Bubonic plague struck London in 1665.
of The city is suffering a plague of rats. > Special page at ILLNESS 
open The horses galloped across the open plains.
across a/the ~ Cattle move freely across the grassy plain.
in a/the ~ the Olduvai Gorge in the vast plain of Tanzania
on a/the ~ Nothing grew on the plain. 
ambitious, audacious, grand, grandiose The government has ambitious plans for prison reform.
immediate What are your immediate plans?
definite, firm A spokeswoman confirmed there was no definite plan to stage a concert in the park.
good The best plan is for me to meet you at the theatre.
best-laid Even the best-laid plans can go wrong.
feasible, realistic, sound We need to develop a sound business plan.
contingency Do you have any contingency plans if the scheme doesn't work?
come up with, develop, devise, draw up, formulate, make, prepare, work out I like to make plans well in advance.
agree The moves contravene the peace plan agreed by both sides.
announce, launch, outline, unveil The minister unveiled a new plan for reducing traffic accidents.
keep to, stick to Let's stick to our original plan
fight, oppose Local residents have vowed to fight plans to build a new road. 
be afoot Plans are afoot to stage a new opera.
be aimed at sth The government launched a five-year plan aimed at diversifying the economy.
a plan of action/attack/campaign To change anything in this organization, we'll need a plan of action.
show sth The plan shows the exact location of the house. for sth, envisage sth, involve sth The plan calls for investments totalling $100 million.
for The president will now press ahead with his plans for reform.
~ to Plans to build a 
catch, get, take She caught the first plane out.
get off, step off I fell in love with the city the moment I stepped off the plane.
carry sb/sth The plane was carrying 350 people. 
by ~ We left by plane for Peking.
in a/the ~ I've never flown in a plane.
on a/the ~ The president was never on the plane at all. 
higher With practice, an athlete can reach a higher plane of achievement.
be/exist/function/operate on a different plane Like all talented musicians, he operates on a different plane from most people. 
absorb sth, consume sth Plants absorb carbon in the form of carbon dioxide. 
life Much of the local plant life has been destroyed by the chemicals.
work (on) Hundreds of slaves worked on the plantations. 
chunk, flake Each blow of the hammer removed a great chunk of plaster. 
apply Apply the plaster evenly. 
come off (sth), fall off (sth), peel off (sth) Plaster was peeling off the ceiling. 
cast A plaster cast of Madame Fournier stood in the artist's studio. 
cast Her broken leg was put in a plaster cast 
in ~ Your arm will have to be in plaster for at least six weeks. 
clean, dirty The sink was full of dirty plates.
clear, empty I could see how hungry she was from the way she cleared her plate.
on a/the ~ She ate everything on her plate.
licence, number The driver was arrested for having false number plates on his car.
name He read the brass name plate by the door. 
mount, stand on The king mounted the platform to loud cheers.
share Union leaders shared the platform with business leaders in a debate on the future of the industry. 
along a/the ~ He ran along the platform to catch the train.
at ~ The train at platform 3 is the 13.15 service to Liverpool.
from ~ The next train to depart from platform 2 is the 10.30 for London Paddington.
on a/the ~ of They fought the election on a platform of economic reform. 
find sth, judge sth, think sth He did not think it plausible that all the differences could be explained in this way. 
not remotely There was no way the story could be made to sound even remotely plausible.
intuitively, psychologically This explanation fits the facts and is psychologically plausible. 
let sb The other children wouldn't let him play. 
at Let's play at pirates!
against United are difficult to play against.
at I've never played John at tennis.
for He plays for Aston Villa.
in She has played in every match this season.
live The band will be playing live in the studio. 
hear sb Have you ever heard her play? 
despite a/the ~, in spite of a/the ~ Despite pleas from his mother, the gunman refused to give himself up.
~ by/from Hospital visiting hours were extended in response to pleas from patients.
~ for The director of the charity made an impassioned plea for help. 
accept, sustain The prosecution accepted a plea of manslaughter.
for A senior judge heard a plea for damages on behalf of the accident victims.
~ of Her solicitor entered a plea of guilty on her behalf. 
perfectly His colleagues were perfectly pleasant and friendly but they had their own lives to lead.
less than, not altogether, not entirely, not exactly, not particularly It was not a particularly pleasant experience.
enough It was a pleasant enough day's journey.
to He has always been extremely pleasant to me. 
far from, not at all, not best She seemed surprised and not at all pleased to see him.
half He laughed, half pleased and half resentful.
enough They seemed pleased enough with the result.
always I am always pleased to hear from former students. 
at She seemed pleased at our success.
by You must be pleased by their confidence in you.
for I'm very pleased for you both.
with We are immensely pleased with this result. 
against They had taken part in a Jacobite plot against William III.
~ by The police claim to have uncovered a plot by terrorists to assassinate the president. 
construct She has constructed a complicated plot, with a large cast of characters. 
a twist in/of the plot There are several unexpected twists in the plot before the murderer is revealed. 
10-acre, 12-acre, etc. They own a five-acre plot of land.
measure sth The plots each measure 10 metres by 20 metres. 
draw, pull They need two horses to pull these heavy ploughs.
three-pin, two-pin The iron is fitted with a three-pin plug.
cold Bathers would go straight from the hot room to take a cold plunge. 
take The river takes a headlong plunge into a maelstrom of rocks and boulders. (figurative) He finally took the plunge and gave in his notice. 
door, seat Please read the safety leaflet in the seat pocket in front of you. (= on a plane)
secret Forged passports were found in a secret pocket in the suitcase. 
feel in, fish in, fumble in, go through, rummage in, search He went through all his pockets looking for his key.
reach in She reached in her pocket and pulled out her phone.
dip into (figurative) Once again club members have had to dip into their pockets (= spend their own money) to buy new equipment.
fish/get/pull/take sth from/out of I fished the number out of my pocket and dialled.
empty, turn out The security guard made them empty their pockets.
put/stuff/thrust sth in/into She stuffed the money into her pocket and walked out. He walked past with his collar turned up and his hands thrust into his pockets.
fill, stuff We filled our pockets with apples.
line (figurative) Dishonest officials have been lining their pockets with public funds.
pick He caught a boy trying to pick his pocket on the bus. 
bulge My pockets were bulging with loose change. 
in the/your ~ My wallet was in the back pocket of my jeans.
out of the/your ~ He took a few coins out of his pocket. 
hands in pockets He stood there, hands in pockets.
a pocket of resistance Government forces are mopping up the last pockets of resistance. 
Romantic, metaphysical 
inspire These river banks have inspired poets for many centuries. 
Modernist, Romantic, symbolist, etc.
line He began his speech with a few lines of poetry.
learn by heart At school we had to learn a lot of poetry by heart. 
reading She invited me to one of her poetry readings.
alternative, different He listened patiently to what we all had to say before putting across an alternative point of view.
take He always seems to take the opposite point of view to me.
express, get across/over, present, put (across/forward/over) A union representative was present to put the farmers' point of view.
see (sth from), understand I can see your point of view, but I think we have to consider the long-term implications. Try to see the situation from my point of view.
come round to If we can talk to her for an hour I'm sure she'll come round to our point of view.
reflect I do not think the article reflects the point of view of the majority of the population. 
from a/sb's ~ From a purely personal point of view, I'd like to see cars banned from the city centre.
from the ~ of The book tells the story of a murder investigation from the point of view of the chief suspect. From the point of view of safety, a lower speed limit would certainly be a good thing.
~ on I don't have a point of view on this issue. 
at, in the direction of He pointed in the direction of the town centre.
to The toddler pointed to the toy he wanted.
towards, with She pointed with her finger at the map. 
point straight at sb/sth The gun was pointing straight at me.
point the way ‘You must cross that field,’ she said, pointing the way. PHRASAL VERBS point sth out 
correctly, rightly As you so rightly pointed out, our funds are not unlimited.
tartly His wife pointed out tartly that none of them were exactly starving. 
must, should I should point out that not one of these paintings is original.
be at pains to, be keen to, be quick to She was at pains to point out that she was no newcomer to the area.
be right to You were right to point out that this is only one of the difficulties we face.
to She tried in vain to point out to him the unfairness of the situation. point to sth 
clearly Fragments of woven cloth at the site, clearly point to the production of textiles. 
seem to The evidence all seems to point to one conclusion. 
consider sth, think sth She considered it pointless to plan in too much detail. 
appear, be, look, seem, stand She stood poised for a moment.
perfectly His manner was perfectly poised between gravity and teasing. 
above/over Peter hesitated, his hand poised above the telephone.
between, for They hovered by the door, poised for flight. 
poised on the brink/edge/threshold of sth The two countries were poised on the brink of war. 
highly, sharply Public opinion is sharply polarized on this issue.
between In this period politics became polarized between extreme right and left. 
appeal for sth Police have appealed for witnesses to come forward. 
cell He spent the night in a police cell after his arrest.
escort The visiting fans returned to the railway station under police escort.
patrol A routine police patrol spotted signs of a break-in at the offices.
raid Nine arrests were made in a series of police raids across the city.
presence There was a huge police presence at the demonstration.
protection All prosecution witnesses were given police protection.
cordon, lines Some protesters managed to break through the police cordon.
helping the police with their enquiries No arrest has been made, but a man is helping the police with their enquiries. 
adopt, carry out, follow, pursue The government followed a policy of restraint in public spending.
have, operate The company operates a strict no-smoking policy. 
of The company's policy of expansion has created many new jobs.
a matter of policy It is a matter of company policy that we do not disclose the names of clients. 
cover sb/sth The policy covers (you for) accidental loss or damage.
French
apply Apply polish with a soft brush.
give sth You'll need to give your shoes a good polish.
remove Use acetone to remove nail polish. 
coolly, formally His manner was coolly polite and impersonal. 
to She was scrupulously polite to him. 
Conservative, Labour, etc.
Opposition 
exit Exit polls suggest a big Labour majority, but the true picture will only be known after the count.
straw I took a straw poll among my colleagues to find out how many can use chopsticks.
be ahead/behind in the polls With a week to go until polling day, the Conservatives are still behind in the polls.
a lead in the polls A tougher budget might have widened Labour's lead in the polls. 
go to The country goes to the polls on May 7th to elect local councillors. 
close Counting will begin as soon as the polls close. 
at the ~s She was defeated at the polls. 
cut, limit, minimize, reduce The summit ended with a joint pledge to limit pollution.
sources The computer model assesses the likely impact of new pollution sources. 
a risk of pollution Environmentalists say there is a high risk of pollution from the landfill site.
drain, empty The pond is drained every year. 
across a/the ~ She swam across the pond.
in a/the ~ There are goldfish in the pond.
into a/the ~ Her sunglasses had fallen into the pond.
the bottom/edge/middle/side/surface of a pond The dog raced around to the other side of the pond. 
pit Pit ponies were used in most mines at the turn of the last century.
with a ~ The cork came out with a loud pop. 
in ~ He was an important figure in pop during the seventies. 
make sth What makes this subject so popular? 
less than, not exactly Jack was not exactly popular after the incident with the fire extinguisher.
deservedly a deservedly popular restaurant with all who enjoy Mexican food
instantly He was one of those people who are instantly popular.
always, enduringly, eternally, ever, perennially Seaside holidays are always popular. a concert featuring the ever popular music from Hollywood's silver screen
personally The prime minister remained personally popular despite his party's disastrous slide in the opinion polls.
as These animals are quite popular as pets.
with This area is immensely popular with tourists. 
with The prison was populated with people of every trade and profession. 
Chinese, Meissen, etc. 
piece some fine pieces of Chinese porcelain 
open A hot bath opens the pores.
of Salaries take up a considerable portion of our total budget. 
of He asked for a double portion of chips. 
dramatically, graphically, vividly an incident that graphically portrays the dangers associated with this sport The museum collection vividly portrays the heritage of 200 years of canals. 
ortuguese noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
firmly The radiologist firmly positioned Phoebe in front of a ferocious-looking machine.
centrally The markers were not positioned centrally.
ideally, perfectly, uniquely The company is uniquely positioned to compete in foreign markets.
at, behind, between, in, in front of, near, on, etc. Police marksmen were positioned on the roof. 
exclusive They had exclusive possession of the property as tenants.
illegal, unlawful They were charged with unlawful possession of firearms. 
take When do you take possession of your new house?
retain The team was struggling to retain possession of the ball. 
order The judge made a possession order against the tenant. 
in ~ of sth Drivers must be in possession of a current driving licence.
in your ~ They have in their possession some very valuable pictures. 
in full possession of sth Anyone in full possession of the facts would see that we are right. 
cherished, prized, proud, treasured, valuable, valued The sports car was her proudest possession.
material, worldly He carried all his worldly possessions in an old suitcase.
endless, many The resort offers endless possibilities for entertainment.
distinct, great, real, serious, strong There's a strong possibility that it will rain today.
faint, remote There is a faint possibility that he might have got the wrong day.
consider, discuss, examine, explore, study Have you explored the possibilities of setting up your own business?
deny, discount, dismiss, eliminate, exclude, preclude, rule out We cannot rule out the possibility of mistaken identity.
face The club is facing the real possibility of relegation.
risk We don't want to risk the possibility of losing all our money.
allow for, cover Some reserves were named to cover the possibility of withdrawals.
for She was quick to see the possibilities for making money that her new skills gave her.
~ of Careful checks will reduce the possibility of unpleasant surprises. 
beyond/within the bounds of possibility It's not beyond the bounds of possibility that a similar situation could arise again.
a number/range of possibilities The course offers a wide range of possibilities for personal development. 
at a/the ~ You can buy stamps at the post office. 
pay I had to pay £4 postage.
cover Add £3 to each order to cover postage.
for ~ It costs £60, plus £5 for postage.
in ~ Sending those books cost me a fortune in postage!
~ on What's the postage on this parcel? 
postage and packing All prices include postage and packing. 
wanted The police have put up wanted posters describing the man. 
be covered with, be plastered with His walls are plastered with posters of rock stars.
appear, go up Huge election posters suddenly went up all over the town.
campaign Detectives have launched a massive poster campaign to help in the search for two killers. 
~ of a poster of James Dean 
deliver sth > Note at JOB 
indefinitely The event has been postponed indefinitely due to lack of interest.
merely The inevitable conflict was merely postponed till the next meeting. 
ask sb to Ruth wrote at once, asking Maria to postpone her visit. 
for Our visit had been postponed for several weeks.
from, to The match has been postponed from Wednesday night to Friday night.
till/until The meeting has been postponed until next week. 
have She has very good posture.
in a/the ~ He sat in a posture of absolute respect.
crop, harvest > Special page at FOOD 
pretty, quite The vodka must have been pretty potent stuff. 
fragment, piece fragments of Iron Age pottery 
kiln > Note at ART 
keep, rear He rears rabbits and poultry in the garden. 
out Helen poured out two stiff drinks. 
from, into, on, onto, out of, over Pour the sauce over the pasta. 
trap Caught in the poverty trap, they are unable to save money for business ventures. 
in ~ Most of the population lives in grinding poverty.
~ of His work displays a poverty of imagination. 
come to, rise to When did this government come to power?
assume, seize, take The Crown prince assumed power in his father's place.
have, hold The court has no power to order a psychiatric examination of the child's parents. They held power for 18 years.
confer, give sb, grant sb The new law delegates many of these powers to school governors.
fall from, lose They fell from power in 1992.
be concentrated in (the hands of sb/sth), rest with sb/sth The real legislative power still rests with the lower chamber. 
base The party's power base is in the industrial north of the country. 
in (your) ~ the party in power They held us in their power.
~ over The government has limited legal powers over television. 
abuse of power, the balance of power The war brought about a shift in the balance of power.
the power behind the throne (= the person who is really in control) People say that the prime minister's wife is the power behind the throne.
power-hungry The company was too small to hold two such power-hungry men.
air, military, naval, sea an increase in Britain's air power
staying Having served in four governments, he has the greatest staying power of any politician today.
magic, magical, mystical, psychic, supernatural They believe he has supernatural powers. 
lose Religion is rapidly losing its power to shape our behaviour. 
in/within your I'm afraid it's not within my power to help you.
through the ~ of He wants to change the world through the power of prayer.
~ of her powers of observation I lost my power of speech for a while after the accident. 
at the height/peak/zenith of your powers In 1946 Dali was at the peak of his powers.
do all/everything in your power He did everything in his power to find us somewhere to live. 
European, Western, etc. major European powers such as France and Germany
full The plane was still climbing at full power.
reduced The transmitter is operating on reduced power.
generate, produce They use these streams to generate power for the mill.
provide (sb/sth with), supply (sb/sth with) This wheel provides the power to the cutting machine.
drive sth Wind power is used to drive the machinery. 
tool DIY grew in popularity with the advent of power tools.
render sb If he took control, they would be rendered virtually powerless. 
against They were completely powerless against such a large group.
in the face of They felt powerless in the face of disaster. 
entirely, purely, strictly For entirely practical reasons, children are not invited.
severely She always adopted a severely practical tone. 
put sth into I can't wait to put what I've learned into practice. 
in ~ The idea sounds fine in theory, but would it work in practice? 
do, get (in), have I'll be able to get in a bit of practice this weekend. I've had a lot of practice in saying ‘no’ recently!
need, require, take Don't worry if you can't do it at first?it takes practice!
give sb This chapter gives students practice in using adjectives. 
out of ~ If you don't play regularly you soon get out of practice.
with ~ His accent should improve with practice.
~ in The children need more practice in tying their shoelaces. 
be good practice for sth It will be good practice for later, when you have to make speeches in public. 
accepted, common, current, established, normal, standard, universal, usual, widespread It is standard practice not to pay bills until the end of the month.
cultural, legal, medical, religious, sexual the medical practices of ancient Egypt
accounting, administrative, business, employment, management, working studying Japanese working practices 
introduce The practice of community policing was introduced in the 1970s.
change, modify Established practices are 
make a practice of sth I don't make a practice of forgetting to pay my bills, I assure you! 
group It's a group practice, so you can easily change doctors. 
be in, go into, set up in She wants to go into general practice.
suspend sb from He has been suspended from practice, pending legal investigations.
open, start She has opened a new practice in the town.
run He runs a successful legal practice in Ohio.
join A new partner has joined the practice.
essentially, largely Our approach is essentially pragmatic.
about They're pragmatic about the spending cuts. 
in a/the ~ She was pushing her baby along in a pram. 
offer (up), say, send up, utter I sent up a quick prayer and entered the interview room.
remember sb in Let us remember them in our prayers today.
answer Does God answer our prayers?
kneel in The congregation knelt in prayer.
have We had family prayers before breakfast.
attend Students are required to attend prayers twice a week. 
at ~ He spends an hour each day at prayer.
in ~ She moved her lips in silent prayer.
~ of I said a prayer of grateful thanks to God.
the answer to (all) sb's prayers (= exactly what sb needs) The letter was the answer to her prayers. 
basic, simple You'll be quite safe if you observe certain basic precautions.
every We take every precaution to ensure that you have a comfortable journey.
as a ~ She had to stay in hospital overnight, just as a precaution.
~ for Staff are expected to take reasonable precautions for their own safety.
~ of I took the precaution of turning the water supply off first. 
give sb/sth You should give your schoolwork precedence.
claim The French kings claimed precedence over those of Spain. 
over The needs of the patient take precedence over those of the student doctor. 
in order of precedence The guests were seated strictly in order of precedence. 
to You are infinitely precious to me. 
analytical, mathematical, military, surgical, technical He organized the team with military precision. 
degree Chimps are able to manipulate objects with a high degree of precision. 
with ~ These items cannot be dated with any precision.
a lack of precision Any lack of precision in the contract could give rise to a dispute. 
awful, awkward, dire, worse Other companies are in an even worse predicament than ourselves.
be in, find yourself in, get into Many young people find themselves in this predicament.
escape (from), get out of How were we to escape this awful predicament?
in a/the ~ Now I really was in a dire predicament. 
sadly England's defeat in the third test match was sadly predictable. 
from He asked whether this was predictable from previous performances. 
greatly, much, strongly I much prefer the orchestra's 1998 recording of the symphony.
simply You may simply prefer just to sit on the terrace with a cocktail.
really I would really prefer to teach girls.
certainly Egg pasta is certainly preferred by many chefs.
apparently Huge majorities apparently prefer reducing unemployment to fighting inflation.
naturally Employers naturally prefer candidates with some previous experience of the job.
would We can eat out if you like, but I would prefer to stay in.
tend to Industries still tend to prefer virgin raw materials to recycled ones.
to I prefer his earlier paintings to his later ones. 
individual, personal It's a matter of personal preference.
first, second, etc. Local voters gave Harry West first preference. 
have Do you have any particular preference?
give sb Preference is given to students who have passed maths and chemistry.
for ~ I choose motorways when driving, for preference.
in ~ to They bought French planes in preference to British ones.
~ as to/with regard to He has not expressed a preference as to which school he wants to go to.
in order of preference List the candidates in order of preference. 
get sb, make sb He got her pregnant. 
by She was pregnant by a former client. 
against, in favour of Reading newspaper reports had unfairly prejudiced the jury in her favour. 
be likely to She did not disclose evidence that was likely to prejudice her client's case 
usual After the usual preliminaries the meeting began. 
as a ~ The two presidents met today, as a preliminary to resuming the peace talks.
without preliminaries She began speaking intensely, without preliminaries.
British, Chinese, etc.
Conservative, Labour, etc.
appoint (sb), appoint sb as, elect (sb), elect sb as, swear sb in as She was sworn in as premier on 4 June.
as ~ during his 25 years as Liberal premier 
pay Electricity companies pay a premium for renewable energy.
at a ~ Good student accommodation is at a premium (= difficult to obtain and therefore expensive).
~ on The company places a high premium on customer loyalty. 
high, low Intense competition has kept premiums low.
keep up We're struggling to keep up our premiums.
increase, raise The insurance company has increased our premiums.
~ on Premiums on many cars will go up this year. 
central, chief, main, major Their chief preoccupation was how to feed their families.
for By now this had become a major preoccupation for him.
initial It is the initial preparation that takes the time. 
do He's done a lot of preparation for this meeting. 
time This simple dish takes very little preparation time. 
in ~ for Get a good night's sleep in preparation for the journey. 
Christmas, wedding, etc.
be in hand, be under way Preparations are now in hand to close half the factories.
for The family can now go ahead with preparations for the funeral. 
for Training is a prerequisite for competence.
~ to Recognition is a prerequisite to understanding. 
legally The drug can no longer be legally prescribed.
for drugs prescribed for high blood pressure This drug is often prescribed for women with heart trouble. 
narrowly, rigidly, strictly, tightly The curriculum is rigidly prescribed from an early age. Everything about her life was strictly prescribed (= there were strict rules about what she could and could not do). 
mere The mere presence of children in the room is enough to upset him.
strong The company now has a strong presence in Germany. 
indicate, reveal, show These chemicals could indicate the presence of water on the planet.
acknowledge He acknowledged our presence with a nod of his head.
grace sb with (ironic or humorous) How nice of you to grace us with your presence! 
in sb's ~ He should never have made those remarks in your presence. 
make your presence felt/known She certainly made her presence felt in the boardroom. 
military, police There was a strong police presence throughout the demonstration. 
maintain The army maintains a constant presence in the area. 
stage He had a formidable stage presence. 
anniversary, birthday, Christmas, wedding 
~ from, ~ to It's a present to us all from Granny. 
make sb a present of sth My nephew loves this bike so I'm going to make him a present of it. 
make sb Could you try and make yourself a little more presentable? 
perfectly She was not exactly good-looking, but perfectly presentable.
radio, television/TV
BBC, ITV, etc.
programme, sports a BBC sports presenter > Note at JOB 
artificial Our products contain no artificial preservatives or colourings. 
apply, treat sth with Make sure the panels are treated with a wood preservative. 
hold She held the presidency of the association for three years. 
into sb's ~ Three years into his presidency, he is more popular than ever.
under sb's ~ under the presidency of George W. Bush. 
concluding At the concluding press conference, both leaders said that the talks had been constructive.
tell The chairman told a press conference of the forthcoming merger. 
at a/the ~ The prime minister outlined the privatization plans at a press conference.
during/in a/the ~ The announcement was made in an impromptu press conference at the airport. 
firmly, hard She pressed down hard on the gas pedal.
close/closely He pressed up closer against the wall, terrified of being seen.
back, down, forward, together, up The crowd pressed forward. She pressed her lips together. 
against She pressed her face against the window.
into Bella pressed her face into the pillow.
on She pressed on the doorbell.
to He pressed a finger gently to her lips. 
press sth flat/open/shut He pressed the lid firmly shut. 
strongly In the interview he strongly pressed his point of view.
for The party will continue to press the case for a new electoral system.
on I did not press him further on the issue. 
immaculately/neatly pressed his immaculately pressed suit PHRASAL VERBS press on 
with They pressed boldly on with their plan. 
press on regardless The weather was dreadful but we pressed on regardless. 
considerable, enormous, great, high, immense Winning the prize carries immense prestige.
accord sb/sth, give sb/sth Different jobs are accorded different levels of prestige.
damage, lower The royal couple's prestige was damaged by the allegations. 
~ within The post carried great prestige within the police force. 
a loss of prestige Doctors have suffered a loss of prestige following a spate of scandals.
a matter of prestige Wearing designer clothes is a matter of personal prestige for many teenagers. 
rightly, wrongly I had presumed wrongly that Jenny would be there.
elaborate It was all an elaborate pretence. 
keep up, maintain, sustain I don't know how long I can keep up this pretence.
be over Now that the pretence was over, he could tell them what he really thought. 
under the ~ of He tried to get close to her under the pretence of examining the pictures on the wall.
~ at His pretence at friendliness fooled no one.
~ of He was hanged without even the pretence of a proper trial. 
make a/little/no pretence I make no pretence to be an expert on the subject.
find, invent He considered inventing some pretext for calling her. 
on a/the ~ He disappeared into his study on the pretext that he had work to do there.
under a/the ~ Under the pretext of checking her identity, the man had copied down her credit card details.
~ for He used his research as a pretext for travelling to Hungary. 
at/on the slightest pretext He keeps popping into my office on the slightest pretext. 
always Her happy outlook always prevailed.
must, ought to Common sense must prevail in the end. 
against The wishes of 20 million people ought to prevail against those of 200 thousand.
over His view eventually prevailed over theirs. 
entirely These injuries are entirely preventable.
sneak Journalists have been given a sneak preview of the singer's latest album. 
attractive, fair, reasonable, right We sell quality tools at the right price.
good I managed to get a good price for my old car.
asking, purchase What's the asking price for this house? You need to pay a deposit of 10 per cent of the purchase price of the property.
cost They are selling off summer shoes at cost price.
full, half Children travel half price until age ten.
market This website tells you the market price of all makes of second-hand car.
command, fetch, go for Property in the area is now fetching ridiculously high prices.
give sb, quote sb I got a number of suppliers to quote me their best prices.
go up in, increase in, rise in Oil is set in go up in price.
range in, vary in These computers range in price from £1,300 to £2,000.
go up, rise, shoot up, skyrocket, soar House prices went up by 5 per cent last year. Prices soared during the war.
drop, fall, go down, slump If prices slump further, the farmers will starve.
go from … to … , range from … to … , start at Prices go from $30 for the standard model to $150 for the deluxe version. 
tag I got a shock when I looked at the price tag.
at a/the ~ Food is available, at a price (= at a high price). I can't afford it at that price.
in ~ Cigarettes have remained stable in price for some time. 
a drop/a fall/a reduction in price, an increase/a rise in price, pay a heavy price (for sth) The team paid a heavy price for its lack of preparation.
place/put a price on sth You can't put a price on happiness.
the price of freedom/success, etc. (= the unpleasant things you must suffer to have freedom, success, etc.), a small price to pay (for sth) The cost of a policy premium is a small price to pay for peace of mind. > Note at PERCENT (for more verbs) 
feel, have, swell with They have a fierce pride in their traditions. He swelled with pride as he held the trophy.
with ~ I wear my policeman's uniform with pride. ‘My daughter's a writer,’ he added with pride.
~ in She expressed pride in her child's achievement. 
a cause/matter for pride Their reputation for fairness is a matter for pride.
a source of pride, take (a) pride in sth She takes great pride in her work. 
dented, hurt, injured, wounded He was nursing his hurt pride.
foolish, stubborn It was foolish pride that prevented me from believing her. 
have I don't want your money?I have my pride, you know!
hurt I didn't mean to hurt your pride.
restore, salvage We want to restore pride in our public services. They managed to salvage some pride with a late goal.
swallow She swallowed her pride and phoned him. 
out of ~ She refused their help out of pride.
through ~ It would be stupid to refuse through pride. 
a matter of pride It is a matter of pride for him that he has never accepted money from his family.
a sense of pride They have a strong sense of pride in their work.
with your pride intact She refused his offer tactfully, allowing him to go away with his pride intact. 
beleaguered The beleaguered prime minister is coming under yet more pressure.
Conservative, Labour, etc. 
serve as He served briefly as prime minister from 1920 to 1921. (For more verbs see the entry for minister.) 
under a/the ~ She held office under two different prime ministers. 
apply This principle applies to all kinds of selling.
underlie sth, underpin sth the principles underlying Western philosophy 
in ~ I agree with you in principle, but we'll need to discuss the details.
~ behind She went on to explain the principles behind what she was doing. 
Christian
moral He was a man of high moral principles. 
betray, compromise I refuse to compromise my principles by eating meat.
adhere to, stick to She sticks to the principle that everyone should be treated equally. 
against your ~s Eating meat was against her principles.
on ~ She's opposed to abortion on principle. 
a matter of principle They reject the proposal as a matter of principle.
beautifully The book is beautifully printed on good quality paper.
correctly I couldn't get the graphics to print correctly.
indelibly (figurative) The incident was indelibly printed in her memory.
privately She had the memoir privately printed in a limited edition.
specially We had the T-shirts specially printed with the firm's logo. 
in The message was printed in blue ink.
first, immediate, urgent Getting food, medicine and blankets to flood victims is the most urgent priority.
low Material possessions have always been a low priority for Mike. 
choose, decide on, determine, identify, sort out You need to sort out your priorities before making a decision about the future.
get, have, take When hospital funds are being allocated children take priority.
give sb/sth The government is giving priority to school leavers in its job-creation programme. 
over Her family takes priority over her work. 
a list of priorities, order of priority List the tasks in order of priority. 
virtual Without a wheelchair, she is a virtual prisoner in her own home.
model He was a model prisoner, and was released after serving only half of his five-year sentence. 
capture, take They had captured over 100 prisoners. Many soldiers were taken prisoner.
hold, keep They were kept prisoner for eight months in a tiny flat.
a prisoner of conscience The former prisoner of conscience was elected president of the new democracy.
under ~ Several railway lines were closed under privatization. 
consider sb/yourself I consider myself highly privileged to have this opportunity. 
financially, socially She came from a financially privileged background. 
as The library is prized as the finest of its kind in England.
for The berries are prized for their healing properties. 
highly/much prized two fruits that are much prized in Madeira 
equally The two outcomes are equally probable. 
into (figurative) The police were probing into her personal life.
with He probed the mud with his knife. 
correct, normal, proper, standard, usual There are standard procedures for dismissing staff.
adopt, follow, use Did you follow the emergency procedure when you heard the alarm?
establish A straightforward complaints procedure must be established from the outset. 
~ against She is bringing divorce proceedings against her husband.
painful Removing the splinters from the wound was a long and painful process.
cognitive, creative, learning, mental Teachers are trained to stimulate the child's cognitive processes.
democratic, electoral, political Churches are taking a key role in the democratic process.
go through Each time we have to go through the whole decision-making process again.
accelerate, speed up, stimulate Excessive exposure to sunlight speeds up the ageing process of the skin. 
take place The selection process takes place over a period of two weeks. 
constant, endless, never-ending (figurative) We've had an endless procession of new secretaries through the office since Amy left.
head, lead The mayor of the town led the procession to the central square. 
make its way, move, pass, wind (its way) The funeral procession moved slowly down the avenue. The solemn procession wound its way through the narrow streets.
in (a/the) ~ The children marched in procession behind the band.
by ~ The government restricted the use of water by proclamation. 
be expected to, be likely to Which method is likely to produce the best results?
combine to All of these processes combine to produce a particular form of language.
use sth to The technology can be used to produce interactive educational programs. 
from The wine is produced from Chardonnay grapes. 
good, right We have a good product, but it needs to be marketed better. the right product in the right place at the right time
a range of products a wide range of beauty products > Special page at BUSINESS 
end, final A complicated string of chemical reactions leads to the end product.
of Like many of his generation, he was a product of Scotland's obsession with football. 
enormously, extremely, highly, remarkably, very It was a highly productive meeting.
practise In the 1930s he was forbidden to practise his profession.
enter, go into, join She entered the legal profession after university. 
by ~ He was a consultant physician by profession.
a choice of profession She was shocked at her daughter's choice of profession.
the top of sb's profession He reached the top of his profession in very little time. 
real, true This is the work of a real professional.
independent The survey should be performed by an independent professional.
golf, tennis, etc. > Note at PROFESSIONAL 
degree, level He taught himself to carve to a high degree of proficiency. 
acquire, develop, increase He acquired greater proficiency after a three-month intensive course.
in a certificate for proficiency in English 
in ~ The painting shows her in profile. 
sb's best profile He presented his best profile to the camera. 
of The data will enable us to construct a profile of the firm's customers. 
high, low She decided to keep a low profile until the scandal had died down.
give sb/sth The story was given a low profile in today's papers.
a decline/fall in profitability, an increase in profitability, a return to profitability The firm is now showing signs of a return to profitability. > Note at PERCENT (for more verbs) 
crash I lost half a morning's work when the program crashed.
allow sth This program allows you to edit and catalogue digital photographs.
contain sth The program contains powerful new features.
provide sth This program provides everything you need to prepare your own publication.
require sth This program requires at least 24Mb of RAM.
create sth The program creates simulations of real-life driving conditions.
in a/the ~ There may be a bug in the program.
~ for a program for debugging > Special page at COMPUTER 
write sth > Note at JOB 
satisfactorily, smoothly, well The talks are progressing very well.
further He felt he still needed to progress further in his learning.
slowly The work is progressing quite slowly.
beyond Samir failed to progress beyond this first step on the ladder.
to She soon progressed from the basics to more difficult work.
with They are keen to progress with the scheme. 
notice, order The prohibition order meant that the book could not be sold in this country. 
on … ~s On current projections, there will be more than ten million people 65 or over in 2010.
~ about He declined to make projections about the next quarter's earnings.
~ as to We have been making forward projections as to future profitability of the firm.
~ for They presented profit projections for the rest of the year.
~ of The council has revised its projections of funding requirements upwards. 
not unduly The surgery must not be unduly prolonged.
faithfully She promised faithfully that she would come.
seem to The plan seemed to promise a new beginning. 
to I've promised my old computer to Jane. 
as promised I am sending you information on holidays as promised.
I can't promise anything I can't promise anything, but I hope to have it finished next week. 
strongly The idea of equal opportunities was strongly promoted by many Labour MPs.
deliberately, intentionally They claimed that the authorities had deliberately promoted and condoned the violence. 
help (to) Basketball stars from the United States have helped promote the sport in Italy and Spain.
serve to, tend to Bonus payments to staff serve to promote commitment to the company. 
through Young people's awareness of agricultural issues is promoted through publicity material. 
aggressively, heavily The new products have been very heavily promoted.
as The town is now being promoted as a holiday destination.
through The company's products have been promoted mainly through advertising in newspapers. 
leave sb/sth, make sb/sth Sun removes the oil and wax, leaving the leather prone to cracking. 
notoriously The M40 through Oxfordshire is notoriously prone to fog. 
to She seems very prone to chest infections. 
can, know how to I don't know how to pronounce the name of the town.
as ‘Gone back’ is sometimes pronounced as ‘gom back’.
as in She pronounded the ‘o’ as in ‘no’. 
confidently Press reports beforehand confidently pronounced that an agreement had already been reached. 
in favour of The committee has pronounced in favour of the merger.
on/upon I do not feel competent to pronounce on this matter. 
American, Australian, etc. 
correct She doesn't like having her pronunciation corrected. 
Conservative, socialist, etc.
broadcast The pirate radio station broadcast anti-government propaganda. 
purposes The film was made in 1938 for propaganda purposes.
value The Olympics were of great propaganda value to the regime. 
about The papers were full of political propaganda about nationalization.
~ against Soviet propaganda against Fascism 
intellectual Companies should protect their intellectual property with patents and trademarks.
lost I phoned the lost property office to see if someone had found my bag. 
dispose of The market was known as a place where people disposed of stolen property. 
rights The firm was found to have infringed intellectual property rights. 
lease, let, rent out They decided to rent out the property while they were abroad.
view We have a potential buyer who wants to view the property.
value The property was valued at £250,000.
put on the market Once the tenants have left, the property will be put on the market. 
a man/woman of property Now that you've paid off your mortgage, how does it feel to be a woman of property? 
antiseptic, health-giving, medicinal The medicinal properties of the leaves of this tree have been known for centuries.
true Some believe that he was not a true prophet.
Old Testament 
a prophet of doom (informal) In spite of the prophets of doom, her business proved very successful. 
equal The company employs men and women in roughly equal proportions.
express sth as The chart shows government spending expressed as a proportion of national income.
decline as, decrease as, diminish as, fall as The unskilled section of the working class was diminishing as a proportion of the workforce. 
inverse The human population in the region is expanding in inverse proportion to the wildlife.
keep sth in Try to keep your view of the situation in proportion (= not think it is more serious than it is). 
in ~ (to) The cost of insurance increases in proportion to the performance of the car.
out of ~ (to) The costs of the plan are out of proportion to the budget available.
~ of sth to sth The proportion of sand to cement used was three to one. 
out of all proportion The problem has been exaggerated out of all proportion.
a sense of proportion Try to keep a sense of proportion (= of the relative importance of different things). 
reach The food shortage had reached crisis proportions. 
package, set The government outlined a new set of proposals on human rights. 
accept, back, support, welcome I welcome the proposal to reduce taxes for the poorly paid.
push through The government could face defeat if it tries to push through the controversial proposals.
~ for The Ministry submitted a proposal for lower speed limits on motorways. > Special page at MEETING 
accept She accepted his proposal of marriage.
put to sb Ring up your agent in New York and put your proposition to him. 
different He's a different proposition from his father?much less tolerant. 
about The book puts forward a number of extreme propositions about the nature of language. 
continuous I plan out an essay in note form before writing it up in continuous prose.
in ~ Major developments are in prospect for the company.
~ of sth There is little prospect of any improvement in the weather. 
be excited at, relish, welcome I don't relish the prospect of having to share an office.
offer (sb) This position offers a good starting salary and excellent promotion prospects.
boost, enhance, improve Getting the right qualifications will enhance your employment prospects.
with/without ~ At 25 he was an unemployed musician with no prospects.
~ for Long-term prospects for the economy have improved.
~ of Their prospects of employment look better than last year. 
bring, create The growth of tourism brought prosperity to the island.
depend on sth The island's prosperity depends on its fishing industry. 
common She was arrested and charged with being a common prostitute.
control He was arrested on charges of controlling prostitutes. 
solicit The prostitutes solicit openly here. 
fall They fell prostrate before the king. 
police Witnesses at the trial were given police protection.
animal, child, consumer, data, environmental, personal, wildlife Animal protection supporters gathered to protest against hunting. She carries a gun in her bag for personal protection.
fire, flood Fire protection equipment must be available on all floors.
degree A helmet affords the cyclist some degree of protection against injury. 
law, legislation, order The couple were found guilty of violation of child protection laws.
under the ~ of Many British wild animals are now under the protection of the Wildlife and Countryside Act.
~ against Fill the cooling system with antifreeze as a protection against frost.
~ from The high walls give the garden protection from the wind. 
a means of protection The skunk releases a pungent smell as a means of protection. 
be high/rich in, contain, supply Cereals supply essential protein and vitamins.
begin to, try to When he tried to protest, she insisted.
gather to Crowds gathered to protest about the police violence. 
at Many people have protested at the cuts in state benefits.
to We have protested to the government. 
stage The car is presently at the prototype stage. 
for The team is developing a prototype for a digital compact camera.
~ of He is working on the prototype of a new type of ventilator. 
conclusively, definitively All this proves conclusively that she couldn't have known the truth.
just Their behaviour just proves my point. 
try to What are you trying to prove?
have sth to I certainly don't have anything to prove?my record speaks for itself. 
to He tried to prove his theory to his friends. 
a chance to prove sth, prove sb right/wrong I was determined to prove my critics wrong. 
free (of charge) Careers advice is provided free of charge. 
be designed to, be intended to The scheme was intended to provide financial help to unemployed workers.
be expected to, be likely/unlikely to The report was not expected to provide any answers. 
with He provided us with a lot of useful information. 
of Several firms are responsible for the provision of cleaning services. 
adequate It is important to make adequate provision for your retirement.
apply The same provisions apply to foreign-owned companies. 
against They had made all kinds of provisions against bad weather.
~ for The Act contains detailed provisions for appeal against the court's decision. 
buy, stock up on/with We went into town to stock up on provisions. 
as He boasted of his prowess as a lover.
~ in The Gurkhas are famed for their prowess in battle.
~ with Their striker demonstrated all his prowess with the boot. 
appoint You may appoint a proxy to vote for you. 
attend (sth) Your proxy may attend the meeting if you are unable to attend. 
by ~ If you will not be able to vote on polling day, you may vote by proxy.
~ for Husbands are discouraged from voting as proxy for their wives. 
a form of proxy We enclose a form of proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting. 
hard, heavily, savagely, severely Prune the trees hard in the winter. (figurative) Local councils could find their housing budgets severely pruned.
back The roses had been pruned back savagely. 
the psychiatrist's couch the secrets revealed on the psychiatrist's couch > Note at DOCTOR(for verbs) 
purely The symptoms are purely psychological. 
child > Note at SUBJECT(for verbs and nouns) 
individual, own The answers we give will reflect our own psychology.
crowd, group Watching the shoppers at the sales gave her a first-hand insight into crowd psychology.
reach He reached puberty at the age of fourteen.
at ~ Girls start menstruating at puberty.
during ~ The body undergoes many changes during puberty. 
be due/scheduled for The book is scheduled for publication in the autumn.
be due/scheduled The publication of her memoirs is scheduled for the autumn. 
sister ‘This Week’'s German sister publication, ‘Diese Woche’, went out of business.
~ on She has several publications to her name on local history. 
local He's writing a history of the town for a local publisher.
academic, educational, ELT, trade 
find, have Finding a publisher is hard for all writers. She now has a publisher for her book. 
have, take He took a long puff at his cigar and began his story. 
magnetic (figurative) The magnetic pull of the city was hard to resist. 
give sth I gave the door a sharp pull.
feel (figurative) She felt the pull of her homeland. 
at A gentle pull at her sleeve got her attention.
~ on He felt a strong pull on the rope. 
take She took a long pull on her cigarette and sighed. 
knitted She was wearing a knitted pullover.
Fair Isle 
knit > Special page at CLOTHES 
deliver, give sb, land, swing, throw She gave him a punch on the nose. He can throw a powerful punch.
pull He pulled his punches to avoid hurting his sparring partner. 
~ on She gave him a punch on the nose.
slow The tyre had a slow puncture and had to be pumped up every day.
get, have, suffer She suffered a puncture in the fifth lap.
administer, hand out, impose, inflict, mete out It is unlawful for a teacher to inflict corporal punishment on pupils. Harsh punishment is expected to be meted out to the murderer.
fit the crime The victim's family do not believe that this punishment fits the crime. 
as ~ (for) She had to tidy the classroom as punishment for being late.
~ for Punishments for killing the king's deer were severe. 
on pain of punishment (= with the threat of punishment) He was compelled on pain of punishment to answer the question.
reward and punishment They use a system of reward and punishment to discipline their children. 
manipulate, work How do you work these puppets? 
mere The king was a mere puppet of the mayor. 
compulsorily The land was compulsorily purchased from the owner to make way for the new road. 
for They purchased the land for $1 million.
from They purchased the house from an elderly couple. 
purple in the face, purple with rage He turned purple with rage. > Special page at COLOUR 
doggedly He was still doggedly pursuing his studies.
effectively, successfully How can we most effectively pursue these aims? 
decide to We have decided not to pursue the matter further.
be not worth pursuing I decided the matter was not worth pursuing further. 
relentlessly He pursued her relentlessly, refusing to take ‘no’ for an answer. 
closely/hotly pursued by sb He ran past, hotly pursued by two policemen. 
discharge, ooze The wound had not healed properly and was oozing pus. 
firmly, hard You'll have to push harder if you want it to move.
deliberately He was deliberately pushed into the path of the vehicle.
just, merely, simply Jack flung himself at Steve, but he simply pushed him away.
aside, away, back, down, home, inside, over, together She leaned on the door and pushed the bolt home. They pushed the two desks together. 
across, against The fans pushed against the barrier.
at She pushed at the door but it wouldn't budge.
into, off, out of He pushed her roughly out of the door.
through, to The woman had been pushed violently to the ground.
towards, under She found a note pushed under the door. 
push sth open/shut He managed to push the window open a few inches. 
begin to I began to push my way through the crowd. 
past She pushed blindly past him and made for the door.
push and shove People were pushing and shoving to get to the front.
push your way A man pushed his way to the front of the crowd. 
hard Lucy should push herself a little harder.
too far Her parents are very tolerant, but sometimes she pushes them too far.
around Don't allow yourself to be pushed around by that bully. 
into Her parents pushed her into accepting the job. 
push sb/yourself to the limit He felt he was being pushed to the limits of his self-control. PHRASAL VERBS push for sth 
hard They're pushing hard for a ban on GM foods. 
have to I'm going to have to push you for an answer. 
cleverly, well I thought you put your points very well.
simply, succinctly Put simply, we accept their offer or go bankrupt.
mildly (ironic) I was, to put it mildly, annoyed (= I was extremely angry). 
to put it another way He was too trusting?or, to put it another way, he had no head for business. 
about You look very puzzled about something.
at I was somewhat puzzled at his unwillingness to help.
by Mrs Sykes seemed slightly puzzled by this. 
have, hold Only two of the applicants had the necessary qualifications. 
period The job usually has a three-year qualification period. 
~ in He held no formal qualification in law. 
need, require The term ‘population’ as used here requires qualification. 
with ~s I agree with his view, with a few qualifications.
without ~ The committee supported her proposal, without qualification. 
for You will automatically qualify for a pension. 
duly South Korea duly qualified for the finals when they beat Italy 6?1. 
for England failed to qualify for the final. 
as A three-week course hardly qualifies as sufficient training. 
sufficient Gas was detected in sufficient quantity to warrant careful monitoring. 
in ~ There is a discount for goods bought in quantity.
~ of A quantity of jewellery was taken during the burglary. 
pick I don't want to pick a quarrel with her.
be/become/get involved in He got involved in a quarrel with his neighbour.
~ with Our quarrel is not with the people, but with their leader. 
have no quarrel with sb/sth We have no quarrel with their plans, in fact we support them. 
first, second, third, fourth/last Profits fell during the third quarter.
Arab, Chinese, Latin, etc.
married The corporal and his family lived in married quarters. 
be confined to He was confined to quarters as a punishment. 
have If you have any queries regarding this offer, simply call our helpline.
put I've a query to put to the last speaker.
about/as to/concerning/on/regarding/relating to Have you any queries about what you're supposed to do? We regret that we cannot deal with queries on individual cases.
~ from We had queries from people all over the country. 
put His arrival clearly puts a huge question mark against the future of the present team captain. 
hang over sth, remain A big question mark hangs over the wisdom of the move. 
against A slight question mark against her character remains.
~ over There is now a serious question mark over his leadership ability. 
about She was closely questioned about her whereabouts on the night of the murder.
in connection with A man is being questioned in connection with the robbery.
on He was questioned on his role in the affair. 
reply to, respond to, return, send in Most of the staff who responded to the questionnaire were supportive.
analyse The college is now analysing thousands of questionnaires. 
about Local companies were asked to complete a questionnaire about their exports.
up People queued up outside. 
for We had to queue for tickets. 
lie, keep, remain, sit, stay Just sit quiet for a moment, there's a good boy.
keep sb/sth Keep that dog quiet, will you! 
all, extraordinarily, extremely, really, remarkably, unusually, very Suddenly the room went all quiet.
deathly, eerily The house was eerily quiet.
dangerously, ominously His voice was dangerously quiet as he asked the question.
oddly, strangely, unnaturally She went back to a strangely quiet house.
about I knew I had to keep quiet about it. 
nice (and) quiet I was looking forward to a nice quiet afternoon. 
lie, remain, sit Lie quiet for an hour and you'll feel better.
keep sb/sth Keep the patient as quiet as possible. 
enough Things seemed quiet enough, but it was an uneasy calm. 
have The system has some odd little quirks. 
by a ~ of By a strange quirk of fate, she later married the first boyfriend she'd ever had.
evening, night The pub has a quiz night every Wednesday.
take My quotation is taken from ‘Hamlet’. 
come from sth Where does that quotation come from? 
from It's a quotation from a poem by Keats. 
give (sb), provide (sb with), supply (sb with) Most builders will give you a free quotation.
for Always get several quotations for the job. 
at length, extensively She quotes extensively from the author's diaries.
in full The passage is quoted in full.
above, below, earlier, here, previously The new text of Article 92, quoted above, gives member states more discretion on this issue. 
as She is wrongly quoted as saying ‘Play it again, Sam.’
from quoting from Shakespeare/‘Hamlet’ 
on Don't quote me on this but I think the figure is in excess of £2 billion. 
big I get very nervous before a big race.
Grand Prix, World Cup, etc. 
have, hold, organize, stage Let's have a race!
be in, compete in, enter, go in for, run in, take part in Is she running in the big race on Saturday?
drop out of, pull out of, withdraw (sth) from He dropped out of the race with a pulled muscle after two laps. She had to pull out of the race at the last minute.
lead, win I was leading the race until the half-way point. She has won the race for the last five years.
fix There is a rumour that the race was fixed.
throw (= to lose deliberately) He was paid £1,000 to throw the race. 
meeting The horse was withdrawn from today's race meeting with an injured leg.
in a/the ~ I'm not in this race.
~ against/with the race against the Danish team
~ between the University Boat Race between Oxford and Cambridge
two-horse Although there are five candidates, realistically it is a two-horse race.
be (involved) in, join The rival TV companies are in a race to bring out the first film drama of his life.
be ahead in, lead, win Who will win the race for the White House?
Irish, Jewish, Latin, etc.
relations Immigration and race relations were key political issues at the time.
among ~s The disease is more common among European races.
~ of The Amazons were a race of female warriors. 
expert, tipster Her racing tipster got the Derby winner right.
calendar, programme, season He organizes his life according to the racing calendar.
business, game, industry He has ridden horses all his life, but he was a late starter in the racing game.
circles, scene He's known in racing circles as a fierce competitor. She's a familiar face on the racing scene.
correspondent the racing correspondent of ‘The Times’ 
competitive, top-level Today's cross-country event marks his return to top-level racing.
Grand Prix
legend, star racing legend Ayrton Senna
debut He made his racing debut for Benetton three years ago.
circuit The bikes sped by on the racing circuit.
roof We fixed the canoe onto the car's roof rack. 
hang sth on, put sth on/onto/in/into, stack sth in/on, store sth in/on The wine is stored in special racks. 
contain sth, hold sth The racks along the wall held most of the costumes. 
in a/the ~ He replaced the CD in the rack.
on a/the ~ Spread the flowers out to dry on a rack.
on ~ The submarine is impossible to detect on radar. 
bleed You'll need to bleed the radiators to remove the airlocks. 
top up Top up the radiator before making a long journey. 
cab, car There were calls for cab radios to link train drivers and signal boxes.
CB, mobile, portable, transistor, two-way
FM, long-wave, short-wave
tune His radio is permanently tuned to Radio 1.
announce sth, report sth The radio announced that the president had been assassinated.
blare (out), play (sth) He drove along with his windows open and the radio blaring out. 
silence The troops maintained a strict radio silence while they moved into position.
amateur, ham The distress call was picked up by a young radio ham.
by ~ The message was sent by radio.
on the ~ We were listening to a show on the radio. 
level The soil contains 30 times the acceptable level of radioactivity. 
contaminate sth The site was found to be contaminated by radioactivity. 
build, make They built a raft of logs. 
bob, float, sail The raft floated away down the river.
fit, burst He punched the wall in a fit of rage. 
be beside yourself with, be boiling/burning with, be choked with, be filled with, be full of, be purple/red/white with, be rigid/stiff with, be shaking/trembling with, feel, seethe with He glared at me, quite beside himself with rage. ‘How dare you!’ she said, her voice choked with rage.
vent The people vented their rage on government buildings.
control, master He managed to master his rage. 
build up She felt the rage building up inside her.
erupt His rage suddenly erupted.
subside His rage was beginning to subside. 
with ~ She was speechless with rage.
a bellow/cry/roar/shout of rage He gave a roar of rage and punched me in the face.
drunken She smashed up his car in a drunken rage. 
be in, fly into, get in If something's too difficult she gets in a rage. 
in a ~ She killed him in a rage of despair.
~ about He was in a towering rage about his lost watch.
~ at He flew into a rage at the insult.
~ of He left in a rage of humiliation. 
carry out, conduct, make bombers carrying out daylight raids over northern France
during/in a/the ~ Five civilians died in the raid.
on a/the ~ He led his men on a cross-border raid.
~ against The raids against Norway continued.
~ by The town suffered several raids by Vikings.
~ on air raids on Liverpool 
foil Two customers have foiled a smash-and-grab raid on a local shop. 
~ on She was shot during an armed raid on a security van. 
carry out, launch, stage Police staged an early morning raid on the premises. 
during a/the ~ He was injured during a police raid on his nightclub.
~ on raids on houses in Catholic areas of the city 
miniature A miniature railway runs around the park.
funicular, overhead Tourists can take the funicular railway to the top of the mountain.
carry sth The railways carry millions of tons of freight every year. 
enthusiast He is a lifelong railway enthusiast.
age Such speed of travel was unimaginable before the railway age. 
on a/the ~ doing maintenance work on the railway He works on the railways.
~ between the railway between Funchal and Monte
incessantly, non-stop, solidly, steadily It's been raining solidly for an hour now. It rained incessantly for the whole two weeks. 
be going to I don't think it's going to rain. 
indoor, outdoor at a massive outdoor rally in Paris
have, hold, stage The demonstrators marched to Trafalgar Square where they held a rally.
attend, take part in About 5,000 people attended a rally calling for peace.
ban The government closed the schools and banned all rallies. 
break up, disperse, end The rally dispersed peacefully after six hours.
at a/the ~ She spoke at a public rally in Hyde Park.
on a/the ~ He will join the team on the rally next week. 
into He deliberately rammed his truck into the back of the one in front. 
across The opinions they expressed ranged right across the political spectrum.
between The town's population ranged between 15 and 20,000.
from, in The disease ranges widely in severity.
over Her lecture ranged over a number of topics.
up to Their ages range up to 84. 
high/highly, low These subjects ranked low for most students. 
above She ranks above any other musician of her generation.
according to The children were ranked according to academic ability.
alongside This city ranks alongside London as one of the great tourist centres of the world.
among He ranks among the greatest boxers of all time.
as Their performance ranks as the best of the year.
below, with This ranks with the great paintings of the nineteenth century. 
high-/low-ranking He is a high-ranking officer in the Indian Army.
rank in the top 10, 100, etc. She is now ranked in the top five hockey players in Britain.
rank second, third, etc. The company ranks second among food manufacturers. 
sharply He rapped sharply on the door.
brutally, forcibly, savagely She was attacked and brutally raped.
alarming, amazing, bewildering, extreme, great, remarkable The styles change with bewildering rapidity.
between She felt an instant rapport between them
~ with He had enjoyed a personal rapport with the former president. 
break out in, come out in When I'm stressed I break out in a rash. 
appear, come out, spread The rash most commonly appears on the back. 
on He's got a slight rash on his chest. 
scurry, scuttle A brown rat scurried across the road.
gnaw Rats had gnawed through the wires.
catcher The dog was a useful rat catcher in the warehouse.
highly Silver was rated more highly than gold. 
among a golf course that is rated among the top ten in America
as It is rated as one of the city's best hotels.
achieve, have They have a high ratio of imports to exports.
improve, increase The hospital is trying to improve its staff/patient ratio.
in a/the ~ We mixed the oil and water in a ratio of one to five.
in direct ratio to sth Their sales rose in direct ration to the amount they spent on advertising. 
strictly These foods had to be strictly rationed. 
to The soldiers were rationed to one litre of water each per day. 
bring in, introduce The government introduced meat rationing in May.
of Strict rationing of basic foodstuffs was still in force by the end of the year. 
cut sb/sth with, shave with, slash sb/sth with, use We used a razor to cut the string.
be armed with He was armed with a cut-throat razor. 
with a/the ~ He slashed his wrists with a razor. 
be expected to, be likely/unlikely to, expect to Profits are expected to reach £2 billion this year.
be unable to, fail to The jury was unable to reach a verdict. 
out, over He reached out gingerly to touch it. 
for She reached for the telephone and picked it up.
into He reached into his bag and took out a book. 
easily She had arranged her desk so that she could reach everything easily. 
can/could I can't reach the top shelf. 
mixed The speech got a mixed reaction.
delayed Her outburst was a delayed reaction to an unpleasant letter she'd received that morning.
chain The change of plan set off a chain reaction of confusion.
automatic, gut, instinctive, knee-jerk, spontaneous The incident calls for a measured response, avoiding knee-jerk reactions.
critical The critical reaction to his first novel has been positive. 
get, have, meet with The play met with a mixed reaction from the critics.
bring, cause, produce, provoke, set off, spark (off), trigger (off) She was surprised at the reaction brought by the mention of his delayed a delayed reaction to the drugs
have, suffer She had a very bad allergic reaction to the peanuts.
to A small minority of patients suffer an adverse reaction to the treatment. name.
gauge, judge (by/from) He eyed her cautiously, trying to gauge her reaction. Judging by her reaction, she liked the present. 
in ~ to There's been a drop in ticket sales in reaction to the review.
~ against Her rebellious attitude is just a reaction against her strict upbringing.
have She has very quick reactions.
slow down Alcohol has the effect of slowing down your reactions. 
time Your reaction time increases when you are tired. 
carefully, with interest He read her letter with interest.
avidly, voraciously She read avidly from an early age?books, magazines, anything.
out Shall I read this out to you? 
be able to, can/could Most children can read by the age of seven.
about Hogan had read about her death in the papers.
from She read from the letter.
of I had read of the case in the local newspaper.
through I read through the first paragraph again.
to I read a story to my son every night. 
read and write She had great difficulty learning to read and write. 
alert, attentive Alert readers may have noticed the misprint in last week's column.
Daily Express, Guardian, etc.
be, make (for) Their story makes compulsive reading. 
extensive After extensive reading on the subject she set to work on an article.
careful, close, critical A close reading of the text reveals several contradictions.
map My map-reading skills are not the best. 
do, get down to I haven't had time to do much reading lately. In the holidays I'll get down to some serious reading. 
ability, age, knowledge, skills He has a reading age of eight. She has a good reading knowledge of Russian.
about/on His reading about Ruskin led him to the works of Turner. 
Bible, poetry 
give Dickens gave many public readings from his works. 
at a/the ~ We met at a reading of his poetry.
~ from/of readings from the Koran 
give The dials were giving higher readings than we had expected. 
all too, very Her suffering was all too real. the very real danger of war 
enough The pearls looked real enough. 
keep sth Try to keep your ambitions realistic. 
enough, sufficiently He was realistic enough to know this success could not last. 
about My friends were quite realistic about my problems.
make sth You could make the hands a little more realistic. 
come to He came to the realization that he would never make a good teacher. 
come (to sb), dawn (on sb), hit sb The realization that the murderer must have been a close friend came as a shock. We saw the terrible realization of what she'd done dawn on her face. 
open up The research has opened up new realms for investigation.
descend into/to (disapproving) Most readers are likely to lose interest when he descends into the realms of (= starts discussing) rhetorical terminology.
move from/out of The euro has moved from the realms of theory into reality. 
beyond/out of/outside the ~ of His ambitions are way beyond the realms of possibility.
in/within the ~ of The idea belongs in the realm of science fiction. 
defend They fought to defend the realm. 
throughout the ~ There was rejoicing throughout the realm. 
a part of the realm, the defence of the realm Royal taxation usually had to be for the defence of the realm. 
bring up Three drummers brought up the rear (= were last in the parade).
at the ~ The socket for the printer cable is located at the rear of the computer.
from the ~, in the ~ The radio is loudest in the rear of the car.
to/towards the ~ A high gate blocks the only entrance to the rear. 
wrong He married her for all the wrong reasons.
opposite Tom's problem was that he lacked confidence; Ed failed for precisely the opposite reason.
only, simple, sole The only reason I didn't become a professional golfer was because of my family commitments. I was never good at playing the trumpet for the simple reason that I never practised.
real, underlying She did not tell him the real reason for her change of heart. The underlying reasons for these differences will be explored in depth in the next chapter.
very There is an assumption that a state will protect its citizens. That is the very reason for the existence of states.
apparent, particular He was attacked for no apparent reason.
no earthly, (no) possible Surely there is no earthly reason why you wouldn't want to come with us?
clear, obvious The reasons for her decision soon became clear.
inexplicable, unexplained, unknown For some unexplained reason the pilot jettisoned all his fuel shortly after take-off.
be aware of, see We see no reason why this band shouldn't be a huge success.
have I don't know why he did that, but I'm sure he had his reasons. I have no reason to believe that she was lying to me.
cite, give (sb/sth), set out, state Give me one good reason why I should help you. In the letter she carefully set out her reasons for leaving.
for ~ of (formal) For reasons of security, you are requested to keep your luggage with you at all times.
with/without ~ They complained about the food, and with good reason (= rightly).
~ against There are obvious reasons against such a move.
~ behind We are trying to uncover the reasons behind her decision.
~ for They didn't give any reason for the delay. 
all the more reason If he's unwell, that's all the more reason to go and see him.
all sorts of reasons People buy things for all sorts of reasons.
any/every/little/no/one/some reason I know you're angry with me, and you have every reason (= very good reasons) to be.
for reasons best known to yourself For reasons best known to herself she has turned down the offer.
a number/variety of reasons, rhyme or reason There's no rhyme or reason (= logic) to the new opening hours. 
lose He seems to have lost all sense and reason.
be open to, listen to, see I tried to persuade her, but she just wouldn't listen to reason. 
beyond ~ He was beyond all reason.
within ~ I'll lend you the money you need?within reason, of course! 
an appeal to reason The residents hope that an appeal to reason (= asking the rioters to be reasonable) will end the rioting.
it stands to reason It stands to reason (= it is logical) that she wouldn't want them to find out about her personal problems.
the voice of reason She was always the voice of reason, persuading him not to buy things they couldn't afford. 
follow, understand I can't quite follow your reasoning.
apply The same reasoning applies to the current situation.
lead sb/sth to sth I cannot accept the reasoning that led the trial court to its decision. 
~ behind Many people challenged the reasoning behind the proposal. 
a flaw in your reasoning, a form/kind/line of reasoning The implication of this line reasoning is that globalization of capital is destructive.
power of reasoning She seemed to have lost her powers of reasoning. 
constantly He was constantly reassuring himself that he had acted for the best.
do much to The report will do much to reassure parents of children at the school. 
of She needed to be reassured of his love for her.
with He reassured her with a pat on the arm. 
feel reassured Kate nodded, but she didn't feel reassured.
need reassuring Often parents simply need reassuring that their children are happy at school. 
rate, rent, tax She's claiming a 100% tax rebate. 
be eligible for, be entitled to People on low incomes are entitled to a rebate of up to 80%.
rise (up) in Simon de Montfort rose in rebellion in 1258.
launch, raise (literary), stage They staged a rebellion against British rule in Ireland.
set off, spark off The re-introduction of conscription sparked off a major rebellion.
foment, provoke (sb/sth to) attempts to foment rebellion in the Cabinet The new taxes provoked the population to open rebellion.
threaten The opposition party members threatened rebellion.
occur Peasant rebellions occurred throughout the 16th century.
begin, break out Rebellion broke out in the Rhineland.
in ~ They are in rebellion against the conservative hierarchy of the Church.
~ over a rebellion over an increase in VAT 
stir The band refused to go on stage and rebellion began to stir in the audience. 
completely, entirely, totally The hall had to be completely rebuilt after the fire.
help (to) The international community must step in to help rebuild the country. 
newly/recently rebuilt, rebuild sth from scratch Much of the damaged vehicle had to be rebuilt from scratch. 
for She rebuked herself sharply for her stupidity. 
a bit, a little, slightly His fine dark hair was receding a little.
gradually, slowly The pain was gradually receding.
fast, rapidly The January flood waters receded as fast as they had risen. 
from These worries now receded from his mind. 
recede into the background/distance His footsteps receded into the distance. 
gratefully All donations will be gratefully received. 
be entitled to You might be entitled to receive housing benefit.
expect to You can expect to receive compensation for all direct expenses arising out of the accident. 
from I received a parcel from my mother. 
well The play was very well received.
badly The speech was badly received by republican leaders. 
with The news was received with dismay. 
hristmas, summer, Whitsun
go into, rise for (formal), take Parliament is taking the Christmas recess a little early this year.
in ~ The decision cannot be made while the council is in recess. 
dark, deep, dim He stared into the dark recesses of the room.
push sth into/to (figurative) I had continually pushed my doubts to the darker recesses of my mind. 
in/within the ~ of The statue was in the inner recesses of the temple. 
sure (figurative) Turning away under a strong attack is a sure recipe for defeat.
basic The basic recipe can be adapted by adding grated lemon.
authentic, classic, old, original, traditional The ales are brewed to an original Yorkshire recipe.
original Was there rum in the original recipe?
Italian, Mexican, etc.
have I've got a good recipe for fudge.
cook, make This recipe can also be made with ricotta cheese.
try (out) I enjoy trying out new recipes.
follow, stick to, use If you want the dish to turn out right you should follow the recipe.
devise All the recipes in the book have been devised by our team of experts.
discover, find He is credited with having discovered the first recipe for gin back in the 1600s. 
call for sth, use sth She always said that if a recipe calls for cream you shouldn't use yogurt instead.
contain sth The recipe contains lots of fat.
make sth, serve sb This recipe makes about thirty biscuits. This recipe serves four people. 
to a ~ The dish is made to a traditional Italian recipe.
~ for a recipe for leek soup (figurative) To live every day to the full is a recipe for happiness. 
by a recital by the Grieg Trio 
clearly, easily, immediately, instantly, quite, readily John's car was easily recognizable in the car park. a building that was immediately recognizable as a prison
as a language barely recognizable as English
to The scheme's benefits were recognizable to all interest groups. 
instinctively As he leaned towards her she instinctively recoiled. 
at Howard recoiled a little at the sharpness in my voice.
from She felt him recoil from her, frightened.
in He recoiled in apparent disgust. 
highly, thoroughly This book is highly recommended by teachers.
certainly, definitely I definitely recommend this film.
personally Consult a solicitor who is personally recommended to you. 
for Who would you recommend for the job?
to I can recommend this book to anyone interested in food. 
sth has a lot/much to recommend it Your idea has much to recommend it. 
strongly I would strongly recommend that you get professional advice.
have All struggles should have their recompense.
give (sth in), pay (sth in) Substantial damages were paid in recompense. 
as/in ~ She received a gift as recompense.
~ for He was given £1,000 in recompense for his loss.
aerial/air, maritime, military Spotter planes made a preliminary aerial reconnaissance of the island. 
reveal sth Reconnaissance revealed not a single large ship. 
large/large-scale, life-size a life-size reconstruction of a Viking longboat
national The country faces a huge task of national reconstruction following the war.
undertake A group of enthusiasts have undertaken the reconstruction of a steam locomotive.
stage The police have staged a reconstruction of the events leading up to the murder. 
accurately, correctly, properly The weights must be recorded accurately.
faithfully It was all there, faithfully recorded in his uncle's stiff and formal style.
duly The contract is witnessed by others and duly recorded.
automatically, routinely The mother's occupation was not routinely recorded on the birth certificate.
graphically, vividly The circumstances of her death were graphically recorded in the local press. 
as The time of the accident is recorded as 6.23 p.m. 
be recorded for posterity The names of those who died are recorded for posterity on a tablet at the back of the church.
poorly/well recorded The geographical spread of the industry in the 16th century is hard to ascertain, for much of it is poorly recorded. 
secretly She secretly recorded the conversation. 
on I recorded the film on video. 
beautifully/well recorded This CD has been beautifully recorded.
complete a complete recording of Mozart's piano sonatas
electrical, magnetic The principles of magnetic recording have been around for a long time.
make (sb) Make a few test recordings before you start the session in earnest.
play (sb), play (sb) back I want to play you a recording of the rehearsal.
give sth, show sth The recording gives an account of his kidnapping.
sound … The recording sounds just like a live performance. 
career The clarinet player has launched her recording career.
by a recording by the Amadeus Quartet 
no other, only I have no other recourse than to inform the police.
direct The study of these creatures has been conducted without direct recourse to living specimens.
have The mother of an illegitimate child had no legal recourse to the father.
seek An order was made against which he sought recourse in the supreme court.
avoid Their system of dispute resolution avoids recourse to the courts. 
without ~ to They tried to settle the dispute without recourse to the courts.
~ against Citizens have learnt that they do have recourse against governments.
~ to She often had recourse to her dictionary. 
limited, modest, partial The FTSE staged a modest recovery to be 6.5 points down.
achieve, make, stage Many people make remarkable recoveries after strokes.
aid, speed (up), stimulate A holiday would speed his recovery. a reduction in interest rates to stimulate global economic recovery
wish sb We wish them all a speedy recovery. 
be on the way, come The economic circumstances are right and recovery is on the way (= recovery will occur soon).
be … way off Unemployment is high and economic recovery is still a long way off (= it will be a long time until recovery).
time His injuries have returned as there was insufficient recovery time between matches.
room After the operation she was taken to the recovery room.
position Continue resuscitation until the person starts breathing and then place them in the recovery position. 
beyond ~ The region has been damaged by acid rain and rivers are fouled almost beyond recovery.
in ~ He's in recovery from the disease.
be on the road to recovery She is well on the road to recovery (= making good progress towards recovery).
hopes/prospects of recovery, a sign of recovery The economy is showing the first signs of recovery. 
find A common way for companies to find new recruits is by taking a stand at a job exhibition.
attract It's difficult to attract recruits when working conditions are so poor.
enlist, gain, sign up Thousands of recruits had been enlisted and partly trained. She tried to gain recruits for the party.
train Army recruits are all trained in first aid.
provide Their business schools provide recruits for domestic industry. 
executive, graduate, student She has set up her own executive recruitment business in Paris.
a method of recruitment, a source of recruitment One source of recruitment is the civil service. 
experience, have, suffer He has suffered a recurrence of his hamstring injury. 
into These materials can be recycled into other packaging products. 
glow The coals glowed red in the dying fire. 
slightly The leaves looked slightly red. 
blood, brick, ruby her ruby red lips > Special page at COLOUR 
flush, go, grow, turn Mr Grubb was shouting and growing redder and redder in the face. 
bright, fiery He could feel himself going bright red. 
with Ross flushed red with embarrassment. 
as red as a beetroot, red in the face Charles was rapidly turning red in the face. 
bring about The tax brought about a significant redistribution of wealth. 
big, considerable, dramatic, drastic, great, huge, large, major, marked, massive, remarkable, severe, significant, substantial The changes may result in a greater reduction in employee numbers than we had previously expected. a sale with massive reductions on selected items
percentage A small percentage reduction in the cost of materials would mean a significant increase in profit.
achieve, make, secure The government has found it difficult to make real reductions in government spending. Every effort is made to secure the highest possible reduction in casualties.
cause, lead to, make, produce, result in These simple changes will make a substantial reduction in the fat content of your diet.
ask for, demand, seek I asked for a reduction as the dress was damaged.
get, receive Guests staying 14 nights will receive a ten per cent reduction.
suffer They suffered a severe reduction in income.
propose She proposed a reduction in the state president's powers.
notice, observe, witness I haven't noticed any significant reduction in the performance of my car since switching to unleaded fuel.
forecast The budget forecasts a deficit reduction of 27%.
mean, represent Our average margins dropped to 35%, which represents a reduction in gross margins of £109 million.
show Figures just released show a steady reduction in levels of emissions over the last four years. 
~ from, ~ in There has been a sharp reduction in the number of accidents on motorways.
a reduction in numbers They are concerned about the reduction in numbers of people eligible for legal aid.
declare sth, make sth, render sth The chapel was declared redundant in 1995. 
award sb sth The referee awarded a free kick to the home team.
book sb, send sb off The referee booked three players for offensive behaviour. 
for His former employer agreed to act as a referee for him. 
conduct, hold The referendum will be held on July 14th.
put sth to The proposals were put to a referendum.
call The president called a referendum that he hoped would confirm him in power.
call for, demand, propose The group called for a referendum on the death penalty.
boycott The unions urged people to boycott the referendum.
show sth A popular referendum showed that the majority of people want reform. 
proposal The Democrats rejected the referendum proposal.
in a/the ~ The issue will be decided in a national referendum.
declare a referendum fair/illegal UN monitors declared the referendum fair.
considerable, great A greater refinement of the categorization is possible.
continuous, endless All programs have bugs and need endless refinement.
useful It is possible to add a few useful refinements to the basic system.
need, require The technology requires a great deal of refinement.
lack The kite was star shaped and lacked the refinement of current designs. 
catch a glimpse of, catch sight of, see He caught sight of her reflection in the window.
look … Her reflection in the mirror looked distorted. 
in a/the ~ In the reflection on the glass door he could see the class behind him.
~ in I saw my reflection in the polished marble.
from There is reflection of heat from the metal surface. 
mere, pale This account is only a pale reflection of the true state of affairs.
direct, simple Young people's behaviour is a direct reflection of adults'.
give (sb), provide Such studies do not give a true reflection of population needs. 
of/on/upon His low level of performance is no reflection on his general ability. 
encourage Counselling should encourage reflection on the past. 
show sb/sth A moment's reflection will show you that that can't be true. 
after/on/upon ~ On further reflection, I'm not so sure it's a good idea.
~ about/on/upon The party needs a period of sober reflection about what went wrong. 
about/on/upon She has some interesting reflections about the spiritual state of the country. 
trigger The rapid movement of an object towards the eye triggers the blink reflex.
sharpen, speed up The training is designed to sharpen the fighter's reflexes.
slow (down) Alcohol can slow your reflexes.
test The doctor tested her reflexes. 
action, reaction Almost as a reflex action, I grab my pen as the phone rings. 
by ~ Almost by reflex, he helped himself to a drink. 
drastically, fundamentally, radically The health service must be radically reformed. 
carefully, deliberately He deliberately refrained from expressing his opinion on the matter.
from I refrained from laughing. 
pause for, stop for We stopped for refreshment halfway through the journey.
provide (sb with), serve Light refreshments will be served in the interval. 
for ~ We're allowed twenty minutes for refreshment.
for ~s What are we going to have for refreshments? 
economic, environmental, political, war Many claimed to be environmental refugees, leaving for the sake of their health.
qualify as Those who did not qualify as refugees were returned to their home countries.
be considered, be found to be, be recognized as Only nine per cent were found to be genuine political refugees.
accept, resettle, take (back/in) The government has agreed to take only 150 refugees plus their dependants.
pour Hundreds of refugees are pouring over the border.
status The Home Office has refused him refugee status.
among ~ Unemployment among the refugees has risen sharply.
first If you decide to sell your car, I hope you'll give me first refusal (= the opportunity to buy it before it is offered to others). 
be met by/with Her appeals for funds to support the cause were met with blank refusal. 
categorically, flatly, point-blank, simply Gerard refused point-blank to co-operate.
pointedly The demand for an apology was pointedly refused.
can't/couldn't, can/could hardly They made me an offer I couldn't refuse.
be entitled to, have the right to Workers should be entitled to refuse to work under these conditions.
be/seem churlish to She offered them cups of tea and it seemed churlish to refuse. 
have (often law) When exercising its discretion, the court will have regard to all the circumstances.
pay, show The manifesto pays scant regard to green issues. 
in/with ~ to I am writing with regard to your recent order.
in that/this regard I have nothing further to say in this regard (= in regard to what has just been said).
have, hold sb/sth in I have the greatest regard for his abilities. He is held in the highest regard by his colleagues.
win The film has won critical regard in America. 
best, kind, warm (all written) The letter ended, ‘Kindest regards, Felicity.’ 
convey, give (sb), send (sb) (written) David sends his warmest regards to your parents. 
to (written) My regards to your aunt (= please give my regards to your aunt). 
puppet In 1940 a puppet regime was established by the invaders. 
bolster, strengthen Education was seen as a way of bolstering the existing regime.
come to power The communist regime came to power in 1975.
against a/the ~ She called for sanctions against the regime.
under a/the ~ He spoke of the abhorrent crimes that had been committed under the regime.
~ under a military regime under Franco 
create, introduce, set up, start It will be necessary to create a regime to monitor compliance with the agreements.
subject sb to The children were subjected to a strict regime of meals, walks and lessons.
follow He suggested to me that I follow his fitness regime. 
under a/the ~ Under the new regime you will be liable for automatic penalties for late submission of tax returns.
Basque, Gulf, London, Pacific, etc.
prosperous, rich Italy's richest region
inhabit, live in Nomads have inhabited this region for thousands of years.
divide sth into The country is divided into 17 autonomous regions.
confine sb/sth to This bird is largely confined to the southern regions of the country. 
cover sb/sth The champagne-producing region covers 34,500 hectares. 
across a/the ~ Sports events across the region have been cancelled because of the weather.
from a/the ~ Twenty participants from the Asia-Pacific region will be invited to the seminar.
in/within a/the ~ The animal is found in the northern regions of Sweden.
in the ~ of (figurative) She earns in the region of (= approximately) £200,000.
throughout a/the ~ The plant is found throughout the western regions of the country. 
sth varies from region to region Sanitary facilities varied widely from region to region. 
fully On completion of the preregistration year, graduates become fully registered by the General Medical Council.
jointly About 68 per cent of illegitimate births were jointly registered by both parents.
duly As I reached my eighteenth birthday I duly registered for military service.
be required to, have to, must You must register the death within three days.
at He registered at his local university.
for There is still time to register for English classes.
with Students living away from home are required to register with a local doctor. 
barely, hardly, scarcely She had barely registered his presence.
vaguely He vaguely registered that the women had gone. 
fail to His eyes failed to register Meredith's surprise. 
land, companies' The deed of transfer must be entered at the land registry.
enter sth at/in, lodge sth at/in, register sth at The certificate will have to be lodged at the registry. 
have sth, hold sth, keep sth The registry holds records of all major operations. 
at a/the ~ The map is kept at the local land registry. 
bitterly, deeply, greatly, really, very much The president said that his country deeply regretted the incident.
immediately, instantly I immediately regretted not asking for his name and address.
later Pierre told them some things he later regretted telling.
come to, live to She knew that she would live to regret this decision. 
perfectly Her face was perfectly regular.
carefully, closely, properly, strictly, tightly The use of these chemicals is strictly regulated. 
mentally She mentally rehearsed what she would say to Jeff. 
well rehearsed He had all the words he needed typed out and well rehearsed. 
enormously, greatly, massively, powerfully, strongly This report strongly reinforces the view that the system must be changed.
merely, only, simply All this simply reinforces my earlier point.
mutually Violent behaviour and rejection by society are mutually reinforcing.
with The door was built of oak, heavily reinforced with iron. 
decisively, emphatically, firmly, roundly, strongly, vehemently, vigorously She firmly rejected the suggestion that she had lied to Parliament.
categorically, completely, flatly, out of hand, outright, unequivocally, utterly Don't just reject their suggestions out of hand.
narrowly Voters narrowly rejected the scheme.
indignantly The paper indignantly rejected charges that it had invented the story to boost sales.
automatically No one knows why a foetus is not automatically rejected by the mother's immune system.
rightly It was an ill-researched product that consumers rightly rejected. 
be free to, have the right to Consumers have the right to reject faulty goods and demand a refund.
urge sb to He urged the committee to reject the plans. 
as The proposal was rejected as too costly.
in favour of Their design was rejected in favour of one by a rival company. 
reject sth on … grounds The scheme was rejected on economic grounds. 
amid/amidst ~ The bridge was completed in 1811 amidst much rejoicing.
a cause for rejoicing She had a personal cause for rejoicing.
an occasion for rejoicing Finding a job should have been an occasion for rejoicing.
scenes of rejoicing There were scenes of rejoicing at the news. 
directly, specifically The issues raised in the report relate directly to Age Concern's ongoing work in this area. 
be difficult to, find sth difficult to I found it difficult to relate the two ideas in my mind. 
to Our product needs an image that people can relate to. 
the ability to relate to sb/sth, an attempt to relate sth Attempts to relate studies on animals to those on humans are not really comparing like with like. 
direct The energy an animal uses is in direct relation to speed and body mass.
close The study shows the close relation between poverty and ill health.
bear, have The film bore no relation to (= was very different from) the book. The fee bears little relation to the service provided.
in ~ to Similar policies were pursued in the 1970s, particularly in relation to health services.
poor (often figurative) Other sparkling wines are often considered the poor relations of champagne. 
to What relation is Rita to you? 
class, diplomatic, economic, foreign, gender, human, industrial, international, labour, personal, political, power, public, race, sexual, social, trade The change of government led to improved industrial relations. a public relations exercise
Anglo-American, East-West, etc. 
cultivate, develop, establish, foster the need to establish good relations with our European partners
break off, damage, sever, suspend Diplomatic relations have been broken off between the two countries.
improve, strengthen Renewed efforts are being made to improve the strained relations between the two countries.
improve Relations between the two states have improved.
close, near The succession passed to the nearest surviving relative.
blood, family If you die without a will, only a husband, wife, children and blood relatives are entitled to inherit your property.
immediate The deceased's immediate relatives, her mother and father, will inherit her estate.
poor (often figurative) He believes that interior design is the poor relative of (= inferior to) architecture.
have I have no parents or close relatives.
care for, give support to, help, look after, support She's looking after an elderly relative.
trace The police are trying to trace the relatives of the deceased.
inform The names of the victims are being withheld until the relatives have been informed. 
aid, promote Some people take up yoga to aid relaxation. 
class He goes to relaxation classes. 
for ~ She listens to classical music for relaxation.
call for, seek Financiers are calling for a relaxation of these stringent measures.
promise The government has promised further relaxations in foreign exchange controls. 
run (in) She ran in the 4 •~ 400 relay.
from She was released from prison last week. 
accidentally The factory had accidentally released a quantity of toxic waste into the sea. 
into How much radiation was released into the air? 
suddenly She laughed, the tension inside her suddenly released. 
officially Figures to be officially released this week reveal that long-term unemployment is still rising. 
refuse to Police have refused to release the name of the dead man. 
to Details of the attack have not yet been released to the public. 
originally/previously released The album was originally released in 1974. 
barely, hardly, not really, scarcely Past imperial glories are hardly relevant to the present day.
not necessarily, not strictly Resist the temptation to discuss topics that are not strictly relevant to the essay question.
morally, politically, socially Is there a morally relevant difference between human life and animal life?
extremely, highly, very It has a highly reliable control system.
absolutely, completely, perfectly, totally He's a good musician and totally reliable.
enough, sufficiently These measurements are reliable enough for most purposes. 
as This statement is not reliable as evidence. 
heavily, highly The service has become heavily reliant on government support.
on/upon The charity is completely reliant on public donations. 
certain The news of his appointment was received with a certain relief by most people.
temporary The drugs only provided temporary relief from the pain.
evident, obvious She smiled with evident relief.
pain The injection gives complete pain relief. 
bring (sb), give (sb), offer (sb), provide (sb with) Morning brought no relief from the heat.
come as The news came as a welcome relief to Brian.
seek She sought relief in drink.
find, get He found relief from his fears in a world of fantasy and art.
experience, feel I felt enormous relief once they phoned.
sense She could sense his relief when she said she wouldn't be leaving.
come He believes that relief only comes from helping others with their suffering.
flood Relief flooded through me as the aeroplane landed safely. 
in ~ She smiled in relief.
out of ~ He hugged her out of sheer relief.
to your ~ To my great relief, she didn't notice that anything was wrong.
with ~ He sighed with relief.
~ to The news was a huge relief to her. 
a cry/a sigh/tears of relief He breathed a sigh of relief.
give sb, provide (sb with), send (sb) The organization provides emergency famine relief. 
work She said that the fighting has halted almost all relief work in the area.
effort, operation There was a huge international relief effort to bring help to the stricken area.
package, programme Congress has agreed an $11 million relief package for victims of the hurricane.
get, obtain, receive You get mortgage relief of 10% on the next £5,000.
be available No tax relief is available in respect of this loss. 
give (sb), provide (sb with) The scene provided some comic relief for the audience. 
for ~ The comical characters are brought into the story for a little light relief. 
high The scene has been carved in high relief.
classical, Greek, Roman 
bring sth into, throw sth into (often figurative) The proximity of the wealthy suburb to the squatter camp throws the plight of the squatters into even sharper relief.
stand out in The snow-capped mountains stood out in sharp relief 
secretly I was secretly relieved when Ed said it was time to turn back. 
at We were greatly relieved at the news of their safe return. 
strictly He distanced himself from the strictly religious aspects of the music.
essentially, fundamentally Yoga is essentially religious and not just physical.
not particularly He did not particularly relish the prospect of a meeting with his boss.
secretly She secretly relished the thought of being alone with him. 
appear, be, feel, look, seem Students may feel reluctant to ask questions.
curiously, strangely She was curiously reluctant to talk about the experience.
understandably Children are sometimes understandably reluctant to wear glasses that are ugly or uncomfortable.
notoriously The monarchy was notoriously reluctant to embrace change. 
Greek, Roman, etc.
earthly, human, mortal This tomb holds the mortal remains of King Richard III.
discover, find, locate, reveal, uncover, unearth While excavating the site for a new hotel, workers unearthed the remains of several dinosaurs.
identify The remains have been identified as those of a Mr Thomas, who lived in Richmond.
excavate, exhume, remove They are excavating the remains of an Iron Age settlement. Marie Curie's remains were exhumed and interred in the Pantheon.
destroy Environmentalists say that the road will destroy the remains of the world's first commercial railway.
feed on The ivory gull often follows polar bears to feed on the remains of seal kills. 
survive Considerable remains survive of the great city walls begun by Theodosius in AD 413.
lie Her remains lie at rest in St Andrew's churchyard.
date from … The burnt-out remains date from the 13th century. 
among/in the ~ The body was found among the remains of a burnt-out cottage. 
personal How dare you make personal remarks!
closing, concluding I agreed with most of what he said at the beginning of the speech b 
withdraw He was expelled from the party for failing to withdraw his controversial remarks.
address Who were those rude remarks addressed to?
ignore, take no notice of I just ignored her last remark. 
apply to sb/sth These remarks apply equally to doctors.
be directed at/to sb The remark was directed at him.
suggest sth Her remarks suggest that the negotiations may be successful.
provoke sth The remark provoked an angry response from the crowd. 
in a/the ~ He made a few factual errors in his remarks on Rembrandt.
~ about/concerning/on I shall keep my remarks on the subject brief.
for These cars are remarkable for the quietness of their engines. 
easily This could easily be remedied if the authorities were willing. 
attempt to, seek to, take steps to, try to The government should have taken steps to remedy the situation. 
gently She gently reminded him that the baby was getting cold and should be taken indoors. 
not have to, not need to I'm sure I don't need to remind you that we have lost our last ten matches.
serve to An event like this serves to remind us that we do not have control over nature. 
about I rang to remind him about the party.
of She looked at her watch to remind him of the time. 
keep reminding sb PHRASAL VERBS remind sb of sb/sth 
forcefully, forcibly, sharply, strongly, vividly The building reminded me strongly of my old school.
suddenly I was suddenly reminded of a tiger defending its cubs.
always Mrs Nolan always reminded Marie of her own mother. 
closely, highly, strongly, very This painting is strongly reminiscent of da Vinci's ‘Annunciation’.
be filled with, be full of, be overcome with, be stricken with, feel, have, suffer She knew that the next day she would be guilty and full of remorse. I suffered no remorse.
without ~ He died without remorse.
~ at He felt some remorse at his behaviour.
~ for She was filled with remorse for the crime.
~ over She felt a sharp pang of remorse over the incident. 
call for, demand, seek They demanded her removal from office.
order In a symbolic move, the new government ordered the removal of the dictator's statue.
require The programme required the removal of government subsidies.
from The local council does not allow the removal of sand from the beach.
keep Although it was late, there was still enough time to keep the rendezvous.
make She made the rendezvous with only minutes to spare.
with I have a rendezvous with Peter at a restaurant on the harbour. 
popular The cafe is a popular rendezvous for young lovers.
make your way (back) to/towards The platoon made its way to the pre-arranged rendezvous in the desert. 
seek He sought renewal of the grant. to seek spiritual renewal
bring (about) They felt the need to bring about a renewal of society.
be/fall due for, come up for Her contract is coming up for renewal in the autumn. 
notice If you have any queries, please contact us on the number shown on your policy or last renewal notice.
extensive, major The building has undergone major renovation.
carry out The council is to carry out extensive renovations to the building.
be in need of, need, require The old Victorian house is in need of renovation.
be closed for The gallery is closed for renovation.
car, line, telephone, television, video The phone bill gives a breakdown of the cost of the line rental and of calls. 
as The laboratory was reorganized as a separate establishment.
into Their headquarters was reorganized into five regional offices. 
properly, successfully Most of the damage has now been successfully repaired.
help (to) Natural vitamins in the shampoo will help repair damaged hair. 
the cost of repairing sth They estimate the cost of repairing the damaged roads at £1 million.
have sth repaired I'm having my car repaired next week. 
early Interest will be refunded in the event of early repayment of the loan.
make The repayments can be made directly from your current account.
keep up, meet They are struggling to keep up their loan repayments.
claim, demand The bank has demanded repayment of the loan.
be due for The loans were due for repayment in July 2002.
spread Repayments can be spread over one to 25 years.
to His arrogance was utterly repellent to her. 
show They refused to showed repentance for their crimes. 
a sign of repentance They were released on parole for showing signs of repentance. 
emotional An actor has to build a character and extend his own emotional repertoire.
have She has a rather limited repertoire.
add (sth) to, broaden, build (up), develop, expand, extend, increase He has added considerably to his piano repertoire. She needs to build up a repertoire of pieces. 
include sth His repertoire includes a large number of Scottish folk songs. 
complete, full Complete replacement of the roof tiles would be very costly.
direct The series III gearbox is a direct replacement for a series II.
be in need of, need, require The original furnishings are now in need of replacement. 
cost, value Rare instruments are usually insured for their full replacement value.
likely He is the most likely replacement for the captain.
appoint, bring in (sb/sth as), hire We'll have to see how bad the injury is before deciding whether to bring in a replacement.
name (sb as) She was named as a possible replacement for the cabinet minister.
find We need to find a replacement for Jan when she goes on maternity leave.
come in/on as, go on as He came on as a replacement for the injured striker.
have She had a hip replacement six years ago. 
part, unit Do you know where I can get the replacement part?
as ~ Trams are now often preferred as replacements for buses.
~ by the president's temporary replacement by the Chief of Staff
build, create, construct, make She made a 1:5 scale replica of Captain Cook's ship, ‘The Endeavour’. 
in ~ The original conservatory has been rebuilt in replica. 
merely, simply He simply replied that he hadn't the faintest idea.
directly She did not reply directly to the allegations.
personally Well, you weren't expecting the prime minister to reply personally, were you?
at length ‘OK, ’ he replied at length. She replied at length, but not to the point.
bluntly, flatly ‘No, you're not, ’ Graham replied bluntly.
in kind Charles was insulted and replied in kind (= by insulting them back). 
not bother to She didn't even bother to reply. 
to He did not reply to my letter.
with She replied with a smile. 
back The reconnaissance party reported back that the town was heavily fortified. 
be expected to, expect to The company is expected to report record profits this year.
be delighted to, be glad to, be happy to, be pleased to I am pleased to report that the scheme is going well.
have to It is with regret that I have to report the death of one of our members.
fail to He was charged with careless driving and failing to report an accident. 
from This is John Hutchins, reporting from Zimbabwe.
on reporting on the situation in central Africa
to Report the theft to the police as soon as possible. 
be widely reported The incident was widely reported in the British press. 
strongly, well Local businesses are well represented on the committee.
disproportionately Women are disproportionately represented among welfare recipients. 
legally The suspect must appear and may be legally represented. 
choose sb to, elect sb to, select sb to He was chosen to represent Scotland in three consecutive World Cup Finals. 
accurately Representing an image accurately requires a great many bytes of digital information.
diagrammatically, graphically, schematically, visually The data can be represented graphically in a line diagram.
be intended to It is not clear what these symbols were intended to represent.
purport to The film purported to represent the lives of ordinary people. 
as The film represents women as victims.
to He admitted falsely representing to police officers that the car had been stolen. 
widely Exhibits include a widely representative collection of railway rolling stock.
of Is this group of people fully representative of the population in general? 
barely She could barely repress a sigh of relief. 
suffer (from) The trade unions suffered brutal repression after the coup.
subject (sb/sth) to Reports claimed that civilians were being subjected to ruthless repression. 
earn (yourself), get, receive The manager earned himself a severe reprimand for criticizing the referee.
give sb, issue (sb with) She was issued with a reprimand for leaking the news. 
take The gang threatened to take reprisals against them.
suffer She tried to persuade the soldiers that they would not suffer reprisals if they surrendered.
in ~ for A dozen hostages were shot in reprisal for the killing of an army officer.
accurately, exactly, faithfully The colours can be reproduced fairly accurately. The book's characters are faithfully reproduced in the film.
merely, simply In her own work she simply reproduces the very conventions that she claims to despise. 
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to It is difficult to reproduce a signature exactly. 
from The map is reproduced here from a Victorian original. 
an attempt to reproduce sth Writing grew out of an attempt to reproduce speech in a permanent form.
reproduced by courtesy/permission of sb/sth The painting is reproduced here by courtesy of the Tate Gallery.
widely reproduced These works were popular and widely reproduced. 
be able to, can/could The offspring have to be able to reproduce in their turn.
by Many single cell organisms reproduce by splitting in two. 
breakaway the breakaway republics of the former Soviet empire
democratic, federal, Islamic, people's, socialist the People's Republic of China
declare (sth), proclaim (sth) They have declared themselves an independent democratic republic.
make, put in, submit I've put in a request for a room with a view of the sea.
get, have, receive We have had repeated requests for a pedestrian crossing near the school.
at sb's ~ The play was written by Agatha Christie at the request of Queen Mary.
by ~ The writer's name was withheld by request (= because the writer had asked for this to be done).
on/upon ~ We will arrange accommodation on request.
~ for The helpline was inundated with requests for information on the crash. 
available on request A detailed list of our publications is available on request.
by popular request The film is being shown again by popular request.
urgently Many of the refugees urgently require medical treatment.
attempt Her own boat capsized after she attempted a rescue.
come/go/rush to No one came to their rescue until the following day. 
to sb's/the ~ Her wails of distress brought him running from the house, like a knight to the rescue.
fire and rescue New Zealand fire and rescue services carried out several extensive searches for survivors.
search and rescue The navy are on a search and rescue mission. 
poorly The book has been poorly researched. 
for She is currently researching for her next novel.
into I spent two years carefully researching into his background. 
bear, have, show The plot of the movie bears more than a passing resemblance to Jane Austen's ‘Emma’.
see I can see the family resemblance. 
end They are both called Nigel, but there the resemblance ends (= they are not similar to each other in any other way). 
between There is a close resemblance between her and her daughter.
~ to Crocodiles still have a strong resemblance to their long-lost ancestors. 
a point of resemblance The story has points of resemblance to a Hebrew myth. 
bitterly, deeply, greatly, strongly She bitterly resented the fact that her husband had been so successful.
old She felt all her old resentment flaring up. 
bear, feel, harbour I bore him no resentment. You seem to be harbouring some resentment against your boss.
contain, hide He struggled to contain his resentment.
arouse, breed, cause, create, fuel, give rise to, lead to, provoke Inequality breeds resentment. 
build up, grow Don't let your resentment build up.
about/over Maggie was filled with resentment about her treatment.
~ among The measures fuelled resentment among students.
~ at I felt great resentment at having to work such long hours.
last It took my last reserves of strength and will to swim to the lifeboat.
untapped The region is thought to have some of the world's largest untapped oil reserves.
hidden She had hidden reserves of courage.
capital, cash, contingency, currency, financial, foreign currency/exchange, gold, international In the face of a severe crisis relating to international reserves, the government devalued the currency twice.
fat The birds build up fat reserves to help them survive the winter. 
have We have only a small reserve of coal.
hold sth in, leave sth in, keep sth in The crack troops were held in reserve behind the front line.
dig into, dip into, draw on/upon, tap, use He had to draw on reserves of strength just to finish the race.
deplete, exhaust The company has depleted its reserves to make the purchase.
pay sth out of The dividend had to be paid out of reserves.
tank The plane was fitted with fuel reserve tanks for long-distance flights. 
in ~ The rail company has two trains in service and one in reserve. 
natural They made him feel at ease, despite his natural reserve. 
with ~ Any contract should be treated with reserve until it has been checked.
without ~ She trusted him without reserve (= completely). 
play in He will continue to train and may play in the reserves next season. 
be, seem She seems quite reserved. 
main, principal Versailles was the principal residence of the kings of France until 1793.
establish, take up The family took up temporary residence in the manor house.
remain in, stay in The family house was sold off but she remained in residence on the ground floor. 
permit He has applied for a residence permit. 
in ~ The flag flying above the palace indicates that the Queen is in residence. 
a change of residence, a hall of residence The university has two halls of residence for its postgraduate students.
a place of residence The notice was addressed to her last known place of residence. 
hand in, submit, tender She handed in her resignation following the dispute over company policy.
prompt, provoke, lead to The accusation prompted the resignation of the cabinet minister.
force Illness forced his resignation from the squad.
call for, demand The protesters called for the immediate resignation of the minister.
accept She has refused to accept the resignation of her deputy.
be/become effective My resignation is effective from May 1. 
announcement His resignation announcement was widely expected.
~ from A scandal led to his resignation from office. 
a call for sb's resignation, resignation on (the) grounds of sth She tendered her resignation on grounds of ill health.
in ~ Hearing that the train was running late, he sighed in weary resignation.
with ~ She spoke with resignation.
to The body of the camera makes it highly resilient to outdoor use. 
mount, offer, put up They mounted stiff resistance to the proposal.
encounter, meet (with), run into The advancing army met with little resistance.
without ~ The attacks did not take place without resistance.
~ against armed resistance against the Nazis
~ to There was fierce resistance to the new laws. 
build up, develop You need to build up your resistance to colds.
to Aids lowers the body's resistance to infection. 
joint a joint US-British resolution
affirmative, negative (both law) An affirmative resolution of both Houses of Parliament is needed.
Security Council, UN, etc. 
adopt, agree, approve, carry, pass The resolution was carried unanimously.
be aimed at sth, call for sth The resolution called for the resumption of negotiations.
approve sth, authorize sth The assembly adopted a resolution approving the scheme.
under (a/the) ~ weapons banned under Resolution 687
~ on The General Assembly rejected the resolution on the subject of arms control. > Special page at MEETING 
peaceful Hopes of a peaceful resolution to the conflict were fading.
press for The government is pressing for an early resolution of the hostage crisis.
show She showed great resolution in her dealings with management.
New Year/New Year's 
make I made a New Year resolution to give up smoking.
at/in a/the ~ They spent a month at a fashionable ski resort in Switzerland. 
be He is very clever and endlessly resourceful. 
as She is widely respected as a politician.
for She was much respected for her knowledge of herbs. 
be internationally/universally/widely respected WWF is internationally respected for its conservation work. 
promise to, undertake to The government has promised to respect human rights.
fail to Her daughters failed to respect her last wishes. 
eminently, extremely, highly, very It was an eminently respectable boarding school.
enough She seems respectable enough.
enthusiastically, favourably, positively, well Both sides have responded positively to the plan. Their son is responding well to the treatment.
magnificently The teams responded magnificently to the challenge.
accordingly The government needs to listen to the public and respond accordingly.
readily The plants readily respond to these stimuli.
merely, simply We do not have a strategy. We merely respond to ideas from local people.
in kind The terrorists declared all-out war on the government and the government responded in kind. 
be likely to She wasn't sure how he was likely to respond.
fail to His condition failed to respond to the treatment.
by The government responded by tightening the law on gun ownership.
to Companies have to respond to the changing economic climate.
with The demonstrators threw stones and the police responded with tear gas. 
to He responded politely to her questions.
with He responded with a smile when she spoke. 
awesome, great, heavy, weighty It is a great responsibility looking after other people's children.
ultimate Ultimate responsibility rests with the prime minister.
diminished He was found not guilty of murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility.
have She has responsibility for public transport.
accept, assume, bear, shoulder, take (on/over) The bank refuses to accept responsibility for the mistake. Will you take responsibility for arranging the food?
lay, place The government of the time placed responsibility for the poor on the Church.
admit, claim No organization has yet claimed responsibility for the bomb attack.
deny, disclaim, duck Ducking responsibility is fatal in a democracy.
attribute He attributed responsibility for the killing to the secret service.
for Full responsibility for the fiasco lies with the PR department.
~ towards He feels a strong sense of responsibility towards his parents. 
the age of criminal responsibility, the burden of responsibility The school governors carry a special burden of responsibility.
accept, face up to, take on, undertake He seems unwilling to face up to his responsibilities as a father. I don't feel ready to take on new responsibilities.
for The heads of school departments have particular responsibilities for the curriculum.
~ to/towards The club has a responsibility to its members. 
extremely, highly, very The company is highly responsive to changes in demand.
to She's fairly responsive to new ideas. 
comfortably Her head was resting comfortably against his chest.
let sth She let his hand rest heavily on hers. 
against She rested the ladder against the wall.
on/upon His hands rested lightly on her shoulders. 
rest easy I can rest easy (= stop worrying) knowing that she's safely home. PHRASAL VERBS rest on/upon sth 
solely, squarely It is rare for the responsibility for causing conflict to rest solely on one side. rest with sb 
squarely Surely the blame rests squarely with Sir Ralph?
ultimately The decision ulitmately rests with the council. 
extensive Many of the older paintings have undergone extensive restoration. 
await, be in need of, need This historic watermill is currently awaiting restoration. 
for ~ The palace is closed for restoration.
full the full restoration of Sino-US relations
immediate Protesters called for the immediate restoration of civil liberties. 
barely I barely restrained myself from hitting him.
forcibly, physically She had to be physically restrained. 
be unable to, can't/couldn't, can/could no longer She could not restrain a flash of pride.
from He restrained himself from shouting at her. 
physical Sometimes the care workers need to use physical restraint on the hospital patients.
without ~ Prices continued to rise without restraint.
~ on/upon The government imposed restraints on spending. 
exercise, show Journalists have exercised remarkable restraint in not reporting all the sordid details of the case.
by The government called for restraint by both sides. 
heavily, highly, narrowly, seriously, severely, very New heavy industries were concentrated in narrowly restricted areas. He has a severely restricted diet.
unduly Access to higher education has been unduly restricted for people with disabilities. 
to Access to the documents remains restricted to civil servants. 
unduly, unnecessarily He argued that the law was unduly restrictive. 
inevitably This move will inevitably result in the loss of a lot of jobs.
easily Complacency could easily result in tragedy.
be expected to, be liable to, be likely/unlikely to Such measures are likely to result in decreased motivation of the workforce. 
high street High street retailers reported a marked increase in sales before Christmas.
carpet, clothing, DIY, electrical, fashion, food, etc. 
in ~ He never said a single word in retaliation.
in ~ for They killed two men in retaliation for a bomb attack the previous day.
early He is hoping to retire early on medical grounds. 
be compelled to, be forced to, be obliged to, have to Anderson was forced to retire because of injury at the age of 26.
be due to, plan to Mr McNeil is due to retire later this month.
as He recently retired as head teacher of their school.
at Most women retire at 60.
from She retired from the bank last year. 
hurl, make He opened his mouth to make a caustic retort.
bite back, refrain from, suppress He bit back a sharp retort.
bring, draw, meet with Her remark drew bitter retorts from the unemployed workers.
sting sb into He was stung into an angry retort. 
hasty, headlong, rapid I decided to beat a hasty retreat.
dignified, orderly, strategic, tactful, tactical I made a tactful retreat before they started arguing. 
force/send/throw sb into Eventually the police forced the crowd into retreat.
cover We covered his retreat with bursts of gunfire. 
in ~ The enemy was now in retreat.
~ from He took part in the retreat from Paris.
~ to an ignominious retreat to the River Vistula 
be in full retreat On the eastern front the army was in full retreat.
a line of retreat We succeeded in cutting off the enemy's line of retreat. 
turn sth into, use sth as She plans to use it as a winter retreat.
go into He went into retreat at his country home to escape the attention of the media. 
go on She goes on a spiritual retreat for two weeks every summer. 
come, follow Violent retribution soon followed. 
in ~ His armies invaded their lands in retribution.
~ for He saw his suffering as retribution for the sins of his past life.
~ from Members of Parliament clearly feared retribution from their constituents.
~ on She saw the sentence as just retribution on the man who had assaulted her. 
an act of retribution, fear of retribution The victim did not report the incident for fear of retribution. 
safely Our aircraft all returned safely to their bases.
forcibly The asylum seekers are to be forcibly returned to their home countries.
be due to She is due to return to school in a fortnight.
fail to Suspicions were aroused when he failed to return to work on Monday morning.
force sb to Lack of cash forced her to return to work. 
from She had recently returned from Paris.
to She never returned the book to me. 
low The engine is almost silent at low revs.
do On average the engine does 4,000 revs per minute. 
revs a/per minute > See REVOLUTION 
divine He claimed to know these things by divine revelation. 
flash A sudden flash of revelation came to him. 
come as, prove To many younger members of her audience, these performances must have come as a revelation. 
come The embarrassing revelations came just hours before he was to make his speech. 
~ for The demonstration proved something of a revelation for our teachers.
~ from He claimed to have had a revelation from God.
~ to His acting ability was a revelation to us all. 
lost Tax fraud costs the country millions in lost revenue.
depend on, need, rely on These television companies rely on advertising revenue for their funds.
collect The central government collects the tax revenue on behalf of local authorities.
bring in, generate, produce, yield The project will not generate any revenue until 2010.
be derived from sth, come from sth Their government's revenues come mainly from direct taxes.
loss of revenue, a source of revenue Tourism is the island's main source of revenue. > Special page at BUSINESS 
role Some people looking after elderly parents have trouble with the role reversal involved. 
amount to, mark, represent This represents an apparent reversal of previous US policy.
a reversal of fortunes Industrial unrest and cheaper imports played their part in the company's reversal of fortunes. 
carefully She carefully reversed the lorry up the narrow driveway.
into The car reversed into a hedge.
out of He reversed slowly out of the garage. 
completely, exactly, totally The decline in this industry has now been completely reversed.
simply To solve the puzzle, simply reverse the order of the numbers.
critical The first chapter presents a critical review of the existing nursery education system.
ask for, call for, campaign for, press for, seek Greenpeace will seek a judicial review if a full public enquiry is not held.
due for ~ The rent is due for review.
under ~ The matter is still under review.
bad, hostile, poor, scathing The show has good audience figures despite poor reviews in the press.
mixed The book received mixed reviews.
do, write I'm doing a review for the local paper.
open to Their new musical opened to glowing reviews.
read, see Did you see the review in ‘The Times’? 
appear His review appeared in yesterday's paper. 
extensively, drastically, heavily, radically, substantially The text has been quite radically revised.
constantly, continually The procedures are continually revised?it is very difficult to keep up with the latest version.
be forced to, have to The estimate for the building work had to be revised upwards.
from, to The figure has now been revised from £1 million to £2 million. 
cultural, economic, industrial, literary, religious, etc. The late 19th century was a time of religious revival. 
enjoy, experience, undergo His work is enjoying a revival in popularity.
stage The economy has staged something of a revival in the last year.
bring about, cause, lead to, spark, stimulate The exhibition has stimulated a revival of interest in the Impressionists.
see The period saw a great revival in the wine trade. 
in a revival in the fortunes of the Democratic Party
signs of (a) revival He claimed the housing market was showing signs of a revival. 
great The Great Revolt of 1381 may have been caused by attempts to keep wages down.
full-scale, general, large-scale, mass, popular, serious, widespread There was a general revolt against the leadership at the party congress.
open Parliament came out in open revolt against the president.
control, crush, deal with, put down, quash, suppress The revolt was suppressed with total ruthlessness. 
break out Revolt broke out when the government decided to raise the price of bread.
overthrow sb/sth The regime was overthrown by a popular revolt. 
in ~ The farmers rose in revolt.
~ against the revolt against the poll tax in Britain
considerable, great, high, huge, rich Top athletes enjoy rich rewards.
poor, scant It was a poor reward for years of devoted service.
tangible Victory brought glory as well as more tangible rewards.
earn, enjoy, gain, get, obtain, reap, receive We are just starting to reap the rewards of careful long-term planning.
bring, have, provide Hard work usually brings its own rewards.
deserve You deserve a reward for all your efforts. 
as a ~ Give yourself some time off as a reward.
reward enough The look on her face when I told her was reward enough. 
for There is a reward for information leading to an arrest. 
find sth I found it immensely rewarding working with the less able children. 
intrinsically I did not expect the job to be intrinsically rewarding.
empty, mere Her speech was just empty rhetoric.
adopt, engage in, resort to, use He was quite prepared to use militant rhetoric in attacking his opponents. 
behind/beneath the ~ Behind all the rhetoric, his relations with the army are dangerously poised.
despite the ~ Little has changed, despite the rhetoric about reform.
for Can you think of a rhyme for ‘tragic’? 
about The kids made up a rhyme about a frog. 
broken, bruised, cracked, fractured He sustained a broken rib. 
against the/your ~s, in the/your ~s I woke him up with a poke in the ribs. 
long, short We have a long ride ahead of us tomorrow.
leisurely We went for a leisurely ride along the canal.
comfortable, easy, smooth (all often figurative) The new legislation did not have a smooth ride through Parliament.
bumpy, rough, uncomfortable It was a bumpy ride along the farm track. (figurative) The new teacher was given a rough ride by the class.
wild He took her for a wild ride on the back of his motorbike.
free He used to get free rides by hiding in the toilet of the train.
funfair, helterskelter, rollercoaster, white-knuckle (often figurative) The day had been a rollercoaster ride of emotion. 
have, take Visitors can take a ride on a steam locomotive.
go for She's gone for a ride on her bike.
bum, cadge, get, hitch, thumb I managed to cadge a ride with a lorry driver.
from The ride from our house to my parents' takes about an hour.
fear A faintly comic figure, he fears ridicule above all else. 
an object of ridicule, a target for/of ridicule The prime minister was becoming an object of ridicule. 
deepen, widen His actions only deepened the rift between himself and the majority of Congress.
develop, occur, open up A rift had opened up within the party.
~ in/within The debate has succeeded only in widening rifts within the Church.
in the ~ (= having justice and truth on your side) There's no doubt that he's in the right on this. 
have right on your side I appealed against the decision because I knew I had right on my side.
know right from wrong Children of that age don't know right from wrong.
right and wrong She doesn't understand the difference between right and wrong.
the rights and wrongs of sth We sat discussing the rights and wrongs of the prison system. 
absolute, perfect I've got a perfect right to park here if I want to.
automatic Any employee who is sacked has an automatic right to appeal.
moral You have a moral right to that money.
parental The local authority exercises parental rights over the children until foster homes are found.
squatters' The teenagers claimed squatters' rights and were allowed to remain in the building.
divine, god-given the old idea of the divine right of kings I suppose you think you have some god-given right to tell me what to do? 
enjoy, have, retain They have no right to come onto my land.
know You can't do that to me?I know my rights.
establish The new president undertook to establish full rights for all minorities.
stand up for You should stand up for your rights and insist that he pays you.
reserve I reserve the right to leave at any time I choose.
confer on sb, give sb, grant sb We were granted the exclusive rights to produce the software in the UK.
extend The government extended voting rights to everyone over the age of 18.
enforce The landlord enforced his right to enter the property.
abdicate, give up, relinquish, renounce He renounced his right to the throne.
waive They gave me my uncle's money, on condition that I waived all rights to his property.
affect, infringe These additional guarantees do not affect your statutory rights.
as of ~, by ~ The property belongs to her by/as of right.
by ~ of The Normans ruled England by right of conquest.
within your ~s You're acting entirely within your rights.
~ over He claimed full rights over the discovery.
~ to Do I have any right to compensation? 
have every right She has every right to feel bitter.
right of way There is no public right of way across the fields. 
sell He sold the film rights for $2 million.
take Take a right at the traffic lights. 
from the ~ Look out for traffic coming from the right.
on the ~ Ours is the first house on the right.
to the ~ Keep over to the right. 
the first/second, etc. right Take the first right, and then it's the second turning on your left.
from left to right/from right to left The books are numbered from right to left. 
on the ~ He's on the extreme right of the party. 
full The crime will be treated with the full rigour of the law.
lack Their analysis lacks rigour. 
~ in There is a need for academic rigour in approaching this problem. 
avoid, escape The town managed to escape the rigours of war.
prepare sb/sth for, protect (sb/sth) against The thick coat of the mountain goat protects it against the rigours of winter. 
give sth Give your hair a good rinse after shampooing it. 
bread, food Shortages eventually led to food riots. 
cause, provoke, spark (off), start The city's housing and unemployment problems sparked serious riots.
begin, break out, erupt, occur, start Prison riots broke out over worsening conditions. 
during/in a/the ~ He was killed in the riots.
run riot Fans ran riot after the match, overturning cars and looting shops. 
cause, set off The decision caused ripples of concern among the parents.
send I dropped the pebble in the water, sending ripples across the pond. His remarks sent a ripple of laughter through the audience.
feel He felt a small ripple of fear pass through him. 
spread (across) sth He watched the ripples spread across the pool. 
of A ripple of unease passed through her. 
inexorable, remorseless Unemployment continued its remorseless rise.
interest rate, pay, price, sea-level, tax, temperature, wage, etc. The union is demanding an across-the-board pay rise of 5%. 
on the ~ (= rising) Crime is on the rise.
~ to His swift rise to the national team surprised everyone. 
the rise and fall of sth the rise and fall of the Roman Empire
crush, put down, suppress The government succeeded in crushing the military rising. 
cannot/could not, dare not, not want to, would not I simply can't risk being seen there. I didn't want to risk being late.
be prepared to, be willing to He was prepared to risk everything in order to achieve his ambition.
for I am not risking my neck for anyone!
on I wouldn't risk my money on a scheme like this one. 
risk it I knew I would be in trouble if I was found out, but I decided to risk it anyway.
daily, nightly, Sunday, etc.
little A cognac before bed is one of our little nightly rituals.
empty Bargaining at the markets is now just an empty ritual.
go through, perform She had to go through the ritual of kissing the toys before her son would go to sleep. rituals performed by druids at Stonehenge on Midsummer's Day
make She makes an elaborate ritual of the washing-up. 
in a/the ~ Women's roles in the rituals of many religions have been limited. 
ethnic, personal, political, professional, sexual, sibling Bitter ethnic rivalries within the region have grown in recent years. 
clear, deserted, empty, lonely, quiet Let's leave when the roads are clear.
direct The airport's near here but there's no direct road.
dangerous, difficult, hard (often figurative) Bringing up a handicapped child can be a long and hard road.
B-, back, local, minor, secondary, small, unclassified
dead-end (figurative) The government's policy on education is a dead-end road.
open We'll be able to go faster once we're out on the open road.
right, wrong We took the wrong road and had to turn back. 
follow, go down Follow the road round to the left. 
go, lead, run Where does this road go? The road runs parallel to the river.
bend, curve, turn, twist, wind The road twists and turns up the hillside.
ascend, climb The road ascends steeply from the harbour.
cross sth The road crosses the river further up the valley.
branch (off), fork Our road branches off to the left just past the wood. 
humps Road humps have been laid down to limit the speed of cars along the road.
across the ~ The house across the road is for sale.
along the ~ He was walking along the road when he was attacked.
by ~ It takes three hours by road (= driving).
down/up the ~ They live just down the road from us.
in the ~ There was a dog in the road so we stopped. We live in/on Kingston Road.
(out) into the ~ She stepped out into the road without looking.
off the ~ My car's off the road at the moment while I recondition the engine.
on a/the ~ There's something lying on the road. There was a lot of traffic on the road this morning. on the road to Damascus My car is back on the road (= is working) again. We'd been on the road (= travelling) since dawn and needed a rest.
~ from, ~ to the road to London 
at/by/on the side of the road, the bottom/end/top of the road, the end of the road (figurative) This latest row could mean the end of the road for the band.
the middle of the road A dog was sitting in the middle of the road, so we stopped.
free, freely The animals were allowed to roam free.
over Her eyes roamed over him, assessing him.
the freedom/right to roam Ramblers are calling for the right to roam to be made law. 
hunt Police are hunting a masked robber who snatched £15,000 from a post office.
hold sb/sth up Robbers held up a bank at gunpoint.
escape with sth, get away with sth, make off with sth Robbers escaped with £30,000 of payroll money. 
rich The emperor was clad in a rich robe encrusted with jewels.
in a/the ~ an old man swathed in robes > Special page at CLOTHES 
violently The boat rocked violently in the huge waves.
gently, slightly She gently rocked the baby in her arms. The boat rocked slightly.
back and forth, backwards and forwards, from side to side, to and fro He rocked back and forth in his chair. 
TV 
perform, play, take John's playing the leading role in this year's play.
interpret She interprets the role as more tragic than I expected. 
in the ~ (of) He was very good in the role. 
clear Every member of staff must have a clear role.
dual, twin She has a dual role as principal and French teacher.
economic, educational, military, political, social, strategic the economic role of small towns A cup of tea often serves an important social role.
have, occupy, perform, play, serve Regional managers occupy a crucial role in developing a strategic framework.
adopt, assume, take (on) I've had to take on the role of mother in her absence.
fulfil He really wants to fulfil his role as godfather properly.
cast sb in He has been cast in the role of chief apologist for the government.
find We need to find a useful role for the volunteers in the campaign.
in a/the ~ She has joined the team in a consultative role.
~ for The new prime minister promised a greater role for women in government.
~ in Pressure groups played a major role in bringing about the reforms. 
down A tear rolled slowly down her cheek.
tightly She carried the magazine tightly rolled up in her hand.
into He rolled the paper into a tight ball. 
to and fro The ship was rolling heavily to and fro. 
become, get You're getting quite romantic in your old age! 
hopelessly, ridiculously Their dreams of love and marriage are hopelessly romantic.
support The roof is supported by stone columns. 
slope The roof slopes down to the top of the windows.
cave in, fall in, collapse Five people were killed when the roof fell in.
space The burglars removed tiles to climb into the roof space.
garden, terrace The hotel has a charming roof garden. 
in a/the ~ There are small windows in the roof.
on a/the ~ There's a cat on the roof.
under your ~ (= in your house) I won't have that man under my roof again! 
under one/the same roof (= in the same building) We're good friends but we could never live under the same roof. 
put down, take I hope those cuttings will take root. 
by its/the ~s She pulled the shrub out by its roots. 
humble Despite his wealth, he never forgot his humble roots.
French, Scottish, etc. 
get/go back to, return to My husband wants to go back to his Irish roots.
trace They can trace their roots back to the sixteenth century.
put down We haven't been here long enough to put down roots.
common The two languages share a common root.
get at/to, go to I've spent months trying to get to the root of the problem.
at (the ~ of) It is a moral question at root. His fears of loneliness lay at the very root of his inability to leave.
~ in The unrest has roots in religious differences. 
the root of all evil They consider globalization to be the root of all evil.
the root of the matter/problem I expect money is at the root of the matter. 
guy, mooring, skipping, tow I tripped over the guy rope of the tent in the dark. 
knot, tie (sth together with) He tied the planks together with a strong rope.
draw up, work out I've been asked to draw up the cleaning rota. 
~ for Are you on the rota for cooking? 
on a rota basis We share the babysitting duties on a rota basis. 
ceaseless, endless, long Life to him was one long round of parties.
do, make The milkman does his round very early. 
buy, order I bought the last round. 
t's my round. (= It's my turn to buy the drinks.), a round of drinks We just had time for one more round of drinks. 
first, second, etc. Italy qualified for the second round of the tournament by beating Germany.
in a/the ~ Australia were knocked out in the second round. 
a round of golf We had a good round of golf today. 
fire The soldiers fired several blank rounds into the crowd. 
get off, leave Leave the roundabout at the second exit.
at the ~ At the roundabout, turn right.
on the ~ There was a lot of traffic on the roundabout. 
become, end in, turn into The game ended in a total rout.
put sb to They put the rebel army to rout.
establish, get into, settle into It took me a week to settle into a routine.
follow, go through We go through the same old routine every morning.
a change from the/in/of routine The children were confused by the change of routine.
a matter of routine Bags of all visitors to the museum are searched as a matter of routine. 
almighty, awful, big, bitter, blazing, fearful, ferocious, fierce, flaming, furious, great, huge, major, serious, terrible, tremendous, unholy, violent We had a blazing row over who should do the cooking.
stand-up A couple was having a stand-up row in the street.
kick up I'm going to kick up a row if I don't get my money back.
blow up, break out, develop, erupt A row blew up over pay rises for ministers.
in a/the ~ He came to prominence in the row over defence policy.
~ about/over Carol and I had a terrible row about how much money she spends.
make Someone's making an unholy row outside. 
go on, rage (on) The row went on and on. 
briskly, hard, vigorously He rubbed his face briskly with the towel.
well Put a little cream onto each hand and rub it in well.
gently, lightly He gently rubbed his swollen nose.
thoughtfully She rubbed her chin thoughtfully.
wearily Corbett rubbed his eyes wearily.
in, together He began to rub his hands together in glee. 
against The cat rubbed against my legs.
at She stood up, rubbing at her back.
into Rub the cream well into your skin.
on She rubbed her hands on her apron.
with I rubbed my glasses with my handkerchief. 
heap, pile What was once a cottage was now a crumbling heap of rubble. 
be reduced to The school was reduced to rubble.
sift through Police sifted through the rubble looking for clues. 
amid/amidst/among/amongst the ~ She stood among the rubble left by the earthquake.
beneath/under the ~ Our car was buried somewhere under the rubble.
in the ~ Several people were trapped in the rubble. 
consider sth, think sb/sth I hope you won't think me rude if I leave early. 
downright, extremely, really, terribly, very He wasn't just impolite?he was downright rude.
about He's very rude about her cooking.
to Don't be so rude to your mother! 
mini Kids from six years old play mini rugby at the club.
running The crowd enjoyed the Fijians' running rugby. 
forward, international, player the former rugby international, Serge Blanco
circles, community, folk, fraternity, people In rugby circles, there is nothing but criticism for the coverage of sport on terrestrial TV.
ugby League, Rugby Union > Special page at SPORT 
completely, quite, totally The experience has completely ruined her life.
financially The long legal battle ruined him financially. 
threaten to A knee injury threatened to ruin her Olympic hopes.
be going to All this mud is going to ruin my shoes. 
over He left his son to rule over Saragossa. 
rule supreme, rule with an iron fist/hand; rule with a rod of iron (= control a person or group of people very severely) PHRASAL VERBS rule sth out 
altogether, categorically, completely, definitely, entirely, firmly, totally This theory cannot be ruled out altogether.
effectively His age effectively ruled him out as a possible candidate.
automatically Infringement of this regulation would automatically rule you out of the championship.
as Police have now ruled her out as the killer. 
overturn, reverse The Court of Appeal overturned the original ruling.
against the European Court's ruling against detention without trial
~ by the ruling by the High Court
~ in favour of The newspaper said that this was a ruling in favour of freedom of speech.
~ on The House of Lords will make a final ruling on the case next week. 
fuel His lengthy absence from work fuelled rumours that he might have been sacked.
confirm The actor confirmed rumours that he will be leaving the series.
quash, scotch, silence The Chief Executive issued a statement to quash rumours of financial problems. 
abound, be flying about/around, be rife Rumours about an impending royal divorce were rife.
sweep sth The rumour quickly swept the town.
factory, mill The Washington rumour mill suggests the money changed hands illegally. 
amid/amidst ~s The manager resigned suddenly amidst rumours of misconduct.
~ of There were persistent rumours of drug taking among staff. 
rumour has it that … Rumour has it that he was sacked from his last job.
there is no truth in the rumour There is no truth in the rumour that the head teacher is about to resign. 
fast, quickly John can run very fast. She ran quickly downstairs.
want to He just wanted to run away and hide. 
down She turned and ran blindly down the street.
into He ran headlong into an enemy patrol.
out of He ran out of the house.
jointly The programme will be jointly run with NASA in the US.
independently The student union is run independently of college authorities.
in parallel, in tandem The two experiments are run in parallel. 
try to Stop trying to run my life for me.
efficiently, smoothly The engine was running very smoothly. 
on Our car only runs on unleaded petrol. 
smoothly Things ran very smoothly for a while.
concurrently, consecutively He was given two twelve-month sentences to run concurrently. 
regularly Local buses run regularly to and from the town.
late The train was running late, as usual. 
efficient, smooth Careful planning is needed to ensure the smooth running of the event.
by sb The attack may merely be a ruse by the enemy to distract our forces. 
about, around, back, home, in, off, out, over, past She was rushing around madly looking for her bag. 
along, from, into, out of, through, to, etc. A surge of joy rushed through her body. He was rushed to hospital. 
come/go rushing Two men came rushing into the room.
rush to sb's/the rescue Whenever her little brother was upset, Jane rushed to the rescue. 
protection A zinc coating is applied to the steel for rust protection. 
covered/flecked/red/spotted with rust The old padlock was red with rust. 
in The wind rustled in the bushes.
ewish, Muslim, etc. 
on the ~ It was considered a sin to work or play on the Sabbath. 
observance of the Sabbath The speaker advocated a less austere observance of the Sabbath. 
deliberately They accused him of deliberately sabotaging the peace talks. 
attempt to, try to They had tried to sabotage our plans. 
consider sth, deem sth, hold sth, regard sth as Certain animals were regarded as sacred. the feeling that all life should be held sacred 
to The place was sacred to the Celts. 
be prepared to, be willing to She was prepared to sacrifice having a family in order to pursue her career. 
sacrifice sth for the sake of sth Comfort has been sacrificed for the sake of improved performance. 
deeply, greatly I was deeply saddened by his death. 
play (it) Does good marketing mean playing safe (= avoiding risks) and staying traditional?
make sth, render sth The army experts made the bomb safe.
keep sth Keep your money safe by carrying it in an inside pocket.
consider sth, declare sth, deem sth The water was not considered safe to drink. 
all, extremely, really, very Don't worry?he'll be all safe and snug in the barn.
not entirely The wood is never entirely safe for women on their own.
enough You should be safe enough, but don't go too far.
environmentally She claimed that nuclear power was the most environmentally safe form of energy. 
from They were safe from attack.
with Your money will be safe with me. 
better safe than sorry, safe and sound They returned from their adventure safe and sound. 
adequate, effective, proper, sufficient Does the procedure provide adequate safeguards against corruption?
build in/into sth Appropriate safeguards would have to be built into the procedures to avoid abuses. 
against The credit agreement includes safeguards against overcharging. 
extra, greater The seat is bolted in place for extra safety.
comparative, reasonable, relative A blizzard forced the climbers back to the relative safety of their tents.
perfect Walkways allow visitors to enter the caves in perfect safety.
child, passenger, personal, public The house has to be rearranged with a view to child safety.
fear for Police fear for the safety of the missing children. 
inspector, officer, official, watchdog The plan was rejected by the government nuclear safety watchdog.
awareness The police are conducting a safety awareness programme in local schools.
belt, equipment, features, harness, helmet, rope The car has many safety features, including anti-skid braking.
barrier, net (often figurative) State benefits provide a safety net for the very poor.
for ~ The stairs are fitted with handrails either side for safety.
for your own ~ The police gave him protection for his own safety.
in ~ The people want to be able to walk the streets at night in safety.
to ~ We managed to run to safety before the building collapsed. 
for safety reasons For safety reasons, children should not operate the machine unsupervised.
health and safety The company was fined by the health and safety inspectors.
on safety grounds The playground was closed down on safety grounds.
a place of safety The refugees finally reached a place of safety.
safety first When cycling on the roads, remember: safety first. 
in a/the ~ His suicide is the latest chapter in this terrible saga of greed and betrayal. 
away, back, on, out, past The boat sailed serenely on towards the horizon. 
across sailing across the English Channel
down, for The ferry sails for Southampton at 5.30.
from, into We sailed the boat out into the middle of the lake.
on We sailed on a large ocean liner. sailing on the sea
to sailing from Dover to Calais.
side Is the steak served with a side salad? 
toss She tossed and dressed the salad.
garnish The sandwiches came with a rather limp salad garnish.
bar > Special page at FOOD 
quick The price is low to ensure a quick sale.
close, make Closing the sale means that you ask the buyer to say yes or no.
hold A sale of paintings will be held at the Town Hall on Saturday. 
make sth, realize sth, total sth The jumble sale made £358 for cancer research. The sale of paintings totalled £250,000.
fall through The sale of the house fell through when the buyer pulled out. 
for ~ I see they've put their house up for sale.
on ~ The new stamps are now on sale at main post offices. 
conditions of sale The conditions of sale were posted up around the auction room.
a contract of sale, on open sale Drugs were on open sale in the club.
the proceeds/profits from a sale All proceeds from the sale of the book will go to charity.
(on) sale or return The novels are delivered to newspaper shops and other outlets on a sale or return basis. 
direct, retail, telephone Direct sales, by mail order, were up by 15%.
high-street High-street sales have fallen for the fifth consecutive month.
level, value, volume The high volume of sales makes the low pricing policy profitable. 
generate The advertising campaign generated massive sales.
account for sth North American sales account for 40% of the worldwide market.
amount to sth, reach sth sales amounting to over £4 million Sales failed to reach 10,000 units.
be/go up, grow, improve, increase, rise, rocket, skyrocket, soar Sales of ice cream are up because of the hot weather.
slump The car manufacturer was forced to shed jobs following a dramatic sales slump.
a decline/drop/fall/slowdown/slump in sales, a growth/an increase/a jump/a rise/a surge/an upturn in sales, sales and marketing > Note at PERCENT (for more verbs)> Special page at BUSINESS 
at/in the ~s I bought it at the winter sales. 
dribble He wiped a dribble of saliva from his chin. 
flow The smell of food causes the saliva to flow. 
give (sb) The sentry gave a smart salute and waved us on.
take The Queen took the salute as the guardsmen marched past. 
in ~ The guests raised their glasses in salute.
~ from The retiring editor received a special salute from the local newspaper.
~ to His first words were a salute to the people of South Africa. 
work out I can't solve her problems for her?she'll have to work out her own salvation. 
~ through The medieval Church believed in salvation through faith and works. 
blood, DNA, faecal, RNA, rock, serum, tissue, urine, etc.
provide All the athletes had to provide a urine sample.
book We looked at sample books to choose the furniture fabric.
comprise sth, consist of sth Our sample comprised 250 catering workers. 
size A larger sample size yields more reliable data.
give sb/sth The conference gave its official sanction to the change of policy. 
with/without sb/sth's ~ No decision can be taken without the sanction of the complete committee. 
available The school will use all available sanctions to maintain discipline.
against There were strict sanctions against absenteeism.
~ for Employers imposed heavy sanctions for union activity. 
international, UN
break Some companies have broken sanctions by supplying arms to the warring states.
order The company is in breach of a sanctions order.
busting Several firms were under investigation for sanctions busting. 
against The UN called for sanctions against the invading country. 
seek Thousands of refugees have sought sanctuary in neighbouring countries.
take In former times, criminals could take sanctuary inside a church.
from It had been built as a sanctuary from World War II bombs. 
kick off > Special page at CLOTHES 
keep sb Having that little bit of time to myself is what keeps me sane. 
completely, perfectly, quite, utterly She seems perfectly sane to me.
doubt, question There were moments when he doubted his own sanity.
fear for I fear for her sanity if this continues much longer.
keep, maintain, preserve, retain Getting away at weekends is the only way I can retain my sanity.
threaten The pace of city life threatens our sanity. 
return Stock market trading slowly settled down as sanity returned. 
for your ~ Such a move is essential for the sanity of all concerned. 
edge, hint, note, touch, trace There was an edge of sarcasm in her voice. He made the remark without a hint of sarcasm. 
be full of, be heavy with, drip (used about sb's voice) His voice dripped sarcasm. 
with ~ ‘Your skills amaze me,’ she said, with heavy sarcasm.
~ in I detected a touch of sarcasm in his remarks. 
be in orbit, orbit sth About 100 Russian satellites are orbiting the earth.
pass over sth The satellite passes over Britain every afternoon.
broadcast sth, relay sth, transmit sth The satellite will transmit the information back to earth. 
link The pictures are broadcast through a live satellite link with Tokyo.
dish, receiver, television/TV
via ~ The BBC broadcast the game via satellite. 
level My current level of job satisfaction is pretty low. 
derive, feel, find, gain, get, have, take He derived great satisfaction from knowing that his son was happy. Although we didn't win, we were able to take some satisfaction from our performance.
in ~ She watched in satisfaction as he opened the present.
to your ~ The matter was resolved to our general satisfaction.
with ~ He nodded with evident satisfaction.
~ in I find satisfaction in helping people.
~ of I had the satisfaction of proving him wrong.
~ with Both parties expressed their complete satisfaction with the decision. 
cause/grounds for satisfaction Although the team lost, their performance gave cause for satisfaction.
a feeling/sense of satisfaction, a source of satisfaction The children were a major source of satisfaction. 
declare/profess/pronounce yourself He declared himself satisfied with the results. 
enough, sufficiently Her parents seemed satisfied enough with her progress.
with She seemed satisfied with the arrangements. 
deeply, eminently, extremely, highly, immensely, really, richly, very There's something deeply satisfying about eating vegetables that you have grown yourself.
aturday noun > Note at DAY 
cover Cover the saucepan and remove from the heat.
in/into a/the ~ Heat one tablespoon of oil in a saucepan. Pour the pasta into a pan of boiling water. 
roll > Special page at FOOD 
bring off, make, pull off Casillas made some spectacular saves. 
existing Only children whose parents are existing savers may open an account.
small encouraging small savers to invest in UK companies 
with savers with the United Bank 
hail sb as, see sb/sth as, treat sb as The people clearly saw her as their saviour.
be acclaimed as, emerge as He emerged as the potential saviour of the club. 
favourite It was one of my mother's favourite sayings. 
as the saying goes ‘Practice makes perfect,’ as the old saying goes. 
full It was several days before the full scale of the accident became clear.
sheer It is difficult to comprehend the sheer scale of the suffering caused by the war.
ambitious, lavish Do they always entertain on such a lavish scale?
commercial The dolls are now produced on a commercial scale.
human The city would operate on a more human scale if cars were banned from the centre. 
in ~ The paintings are small in scale.
an economy of scale Economies of scale enable the larger companies to lower their prices.
sliding Benefits are paid on a sliding scale according to family income.
time Can you give me any sort of time scale for the completion of the building work?
pay, salary, wage The company has a five-point pay scale.
Beaufort, Richter The earthquake measured 6.4 on the Richter scale. 
go/move down/up, rise up He has risen up the social scale from rather humble beginnings. 
on a/the ~ Where do birds come on the evolutionary scale?
~ of … to … On a scale of 1 to 10, he scores 7. 
the bottom/end/top of the scale After 10 years, she had worked her way to the top of the pay scale. 
drawing, model He's made a scale model of the Eiffel Tower. 
to ~ The plan of the building is not drawn to scale.
~ of … to … The map has a scale of one centimetre to the kilometre. a scale of 1: 25,000 
practise We could hear her practising her scales. 
of the scale of C major 
crawl, prickle Her scalp crawled with tension.
gleam His pink scalp gleamed through his sparse hair. 
anxiously, nervously She scanned the street nervously, looking for the two men.
for I scanned the paper for news. 
make sb, use sb as He has been made a scapegoat for the company's failures. 
for They are being made the scapegoats for all the ills of society. 
badly, deeply, hideously His face was badly scarred by the fire.
emotionally, mentally, physically, psychologically She was both physically and mentally scarred by the accident.
with (figurative) Their minds were scarred with bitterness. 
be scarred for life, leave sb scarred The accident left him permanently scarred. 
value Old properties in the town have acquired a scarcity value. 
of There is a great scarcity of food in the drought-stricken areas. 
in times/years of scarcity In times of scarcity, lions will travel great distances in search of food. 
easily He doesn't scare easily. 
into They're just trying to scare us into letting out the secret.
with You don't scare me with your threats! 
scare sb silly/stiff/to death (informal) The very thought of flying scares me stiff.
scare the hell/life/living daylights out of sb (informal) You scared the life out of me, hiding like that!
wind around sth, wrap around sth He wrapped his scarf around his neck.
knot, tie She had a scarf tied over her head.
cover sth Her hair was covered by a silk scarf. > Special page at CLOTHES 
liberally Large vases of flowers were liberally scattered about the room.
about/around, across, among, on, over Broken glass lay scattered over the floor.
throughout, with The whole area was scattered with debris. 
attend, be on PC Michael Potter attended the scene.
arrive at/on, reach An ambulance soon arrived at the scene of the accident.
be called to The police were called to the scene.
survey He surveyed the scene with horror. 
at the ~ Police say the man died at the scene.
on the ~ Photographers were on the scene in seconds.
~ of The criminal often revisits the scene of the crime. 
bizarre, extraordinary, strange She opened the door on an extraordinary scene of disorder.
ever-changing I stared out of the window of the train on the ever-changing scene.
occur, take place, unfold We sat in horror watching the scenes of violence unfold before us.
be reminiscent of sth Paramedics tended the wounded in scenes reminiscent of wartime. 
amid/amidst ~s of The star arrived amidst scenes of excitement.
~ from scenes from Greek mythology
~ of He painted scenes of country life. The battlefield was a scene of utter carnage. 
a change of scene You're exhausted. What you need is a complete change of scene. 
dramatic, funny, steamy, touching, tragic The film has several steamy bedroom scenes.
act, play She plays the love scenes brilliantly.
set The scene is set in the first paragraph with an account of Sally's childhood.
steal The little girl stole the scene from all the big stars. 
shift Then the scene shifts to the kitchen. 
in a/the ~ He appears in the opening scene.
~ between There is a dramatic fight scene between the two brothers. 
cause, create, make Quiet, now! Don't make a scene!
between There have been a couple of ugly scenes between him and the manager.
~ with She had some terrible scenes with her father. 
art, club, comedy, drug/drugs, economic, education/educational, fashion, gay, literary, music/musical, political, social, sporting, etc. He is heavily involved in the local art scene. 
appear on, arrive on, come on/onto Owen arrived on the international scene in the 1998 World Cup.
vanish from Many of the stars of the nineties have completely vanished from the music scene.
on/onto the ~ the eruption of Cuban music onto the world scene 
a newcomer to the scene The film's dir
not your scene (informal) Hillwalking is not my scene, so I stayed at home. 
heady, heavy, pungent, rich, sharp, strong the heavy scent of Indian cooking
have This flower has no scent.
be filled with The air was filled with the scent of lilac.
give off, release The flowers give off a heady scent at night.
come, drift From the vine outside came the scent of honey.
fill sth The scent of pine filled the room.
linger The scent of incense lingered in the air. 
be on, have The dog was on the scent of a rabbit. The hounds have the scent.
leave The cat had left its scent on the sofa.
catch, pick up One of the hounds had picked up the scent of a fox.
dab on, put on, spray on She dabbed some scent on her wrists.
reek of, smell of She reeked of cheap scent. 
convince, win over He has managed to convince even the sceptics.
argue sth, point out sth, say sth Sceptics will argue that no such scheme has ever proved successful. 
about She is a sceptic about the dangers of global warming. 
prove the sceptics right/wrong Events since the elections have proved the sceptics right. 
initial My initial scepticism was replaced with respectful admiration. 
certain amount, degree, great deal I regard their press releases with a degree of scepticism. 
have She has a healthy scepticism towards the claims in the company's report.
with ~ This theory was initially received with great scepticism by her fellow scientists.
~ about/over/towards He expressed a great deal of scepticism about the value of psychoanalysis. 
originally The meeting was originally scheduled for March 12th.
for The film is scheduled for release next month. 
be scheduled to begin/start/take place The Grand Prix is scheduled to take place on July 4th. 
sufferer > Special page at ILLNESS 
award (sb), give (sb) The Fund awards four scholarships every year. 
on a ~ Two of the girls here are on scholarships.
~ to He won a scholarship to Queens' College, Cambridge. 
good She received the best schooling the town could offer.
bad, poor Many children are disadvantaged by poor schooling.
compulsory Compulsory schooling ends at sixteen.
get, have, receive He has had no formal schooling.
continue (with) She continued with her schooling after a long period of illness.
suffer We will stay in this country, as we don't want her schooling to suffer. 
access to schooling A child's access to schooling varies greatly from area to area.
highly It all looks highly scientific!
purely Her curiosity was purely scientific.
not very His approach was not very scientific. 
cut sth with, use Don't use these scissors to cut paper or card. 
cut These scissors don't cut very well. 
full In her new house she had full scope for her passion for gardening.
allow (sb), give sb, leave (sb), offer (sb), provide (sb with) These courses give students more scope for developing their own ideas.
for There is limited scope for creativity in my job. 
limited, narrow The scope of the exhibition is disappointingly narrow.
geographical, territorial The geographical scope of product markets has widened since the war. 
define, determine These criteria were used to determine the scope of the curriculum. 
beyond/outside the ~ of The subject lies outside the scope of this book.
in (sth's) ~ The survey is too limited in (its) scope.
within the ~ of These disputes fall within the scope of the local courts. 
easily Cunningham broke away and ran some 40 metres to score easily. 
fail to, have yet to Peter Walker has yet to score this season.
look likely to Villa always looked the team most likely to score. 
against The England team failed to score against Italy on Saturday.
for She has not yet scored for her new club.
with He scored with a neat header. 
come close to scoring It was Robertson who came closest to scoring.
open the scoring Zidane opened the scoring in the seventh minute of the game. 
highly, well In the key area of negotiation, women scored highly. 
be set in His face was set in a permanent scowl. 
in a ~ Her brows drew together in a scowl.
with a ~ He looked up at me with a scowl. 
desperate, mad, undignified, wild There was a mad scramble for the exits. 
in a/the ~ I lost my sister in the scramble for a seat.
little She scribbled the address on a little scrap of paper.
food The pigs are fed on food scraps. 
of Every scrap of land in the town has been built on. 
sell sth for The engine has been sold for scrap.
heap, yard (also scrapyard) My first computer has been consigned to the scrap heap.
value Police estimate the scrap value of the lead at around £8,000. 
in a/the ~ He looks like he's been in a scrap.
~ with He had a bit of a scrap with the boy next door. 
light, little, minor, slight, small, superficial His only injuries were some minor scratches above his eye. 
without a ~ She emerged from the wrecked vehicle without a scratch.
~ on I've got some nasty scratches on my legs. 
echo, ring out His screams echoed through the empty house. 
with a ~ She reacted to the news with hysterical screams.
small (often figurative) She appears regularly on the small screen (= on television).
blank I sat gazing at the blank screen, trying to think of something to write.
computer, television/TV, video 
fill The star's lovely face filled the screen.
flicker The screen flickered, and then everything went dark. 
off ~ They play deadly rivals in the show but they are good friends off screen.
on (the) ~ She is remembered mainly for her performances on screen. Information can be viewed on screen or printed out. The image came up on the screen for a few seconds. 
folding The room was divided by a folding screen. 
behind a/the ~ His desk was discreetly placed behind a screen.
~ between There is a screen between the two beds. 
furiously The students were all scribbling away furiously.
holy, sacred the sacred scripture of the Buddhists
Christian, Hebrew, Hindu, Jewish, etc. 
interpret, read (from) She read from the scriptures.
in the ~s You won't find this moral precept in the scriptures. 
at She scrubbed at the child's face with a tissue.
from, off He scrubbed the blood from his shoes. 
scrub sth clean The table had been scrubbed clean. 
for All parts of the aircraft are closely scrutinized for signs of wear or damage. 
break out A scuffle broke out among people in the crowd. 
in a/the ~ He was injured in a scuffle at the football match.
~ with He was involved in a scuffle with photographers. 
create, make She creates sculptures out of scrap materials.
by a sculpture by Henry Moore
an exhibition of sculpture/sculptures > Note at ART 
restaurant > Special page at FOOD 
colony A colony of seals lay basking in the sun. 
cull Environmentalists claim there is no reason to cull seals. 
break He broke the seal, and opened the envelope. 
a seal of approval Her report was given the seal of approval by senior management. 
sew, stitch, tack She sewed the seam with small neat stitches.
unpick It took hours to unpick the seams.
be bursting at the seams (often figurative) The film is bursting at the seams with good performances.
come/fall apart at the seams (often figurative) Their marriage was coming apart at the seams. 
rich They're still mining a rich seam of high-grade coal. 
thoroughly The area has been thoroughly searched.
aimlessly For the rest of the morning he searched aimlessly through the town.
around/round I searched around for a thick stick. 
among We searched among the rocks for crabs.
for Police are still searching for the missing child.
in He searched in his pocket and found a few coins.
search far and wide, search sth from top to bottom We searched the house from top to bottom.
search high and low I have searched high and low and cannot find them. 
dry, monsoon, rainy, wet In this climate there are no real changes of temperature, just a wet and a dry season.
be in, come into Melons are just coming into season.
high, peak The resort gets overcrowded in peak season.
low, off The hotel is almost empty in the off season.
gruelling, hard It was the final race of a hard season.
close The team trained hard during the close season and won its first five matches.
consecutive, successive Our team won the trophy for the second successive season.
Christmas, festive best wishes for the festive season 
ticket Season ticket holders do not have to queue. 
the height of the season > Note at SEASON 
wear By law, you are obliged to wear seat belts.
comfortably He seated himself comfortably at the foot of the bed. The car seats six comfortably. 
at Ramirez was seated at a table near the window.
on She seated herself on the sofa. 
be seated Please be seated.
be seated cross-legged, remain/stay seated Please remain seated until your name is called. 
fairly, pretty We managed to find a fairly secluded spot for our picnic. 
not give sth As for the money, don't give it a second thought. 
on ~s On second thoughts, maybe I won't apply for the job after all.
without a ~ He dismissed the rumour without a second thought.
~s about We're beginning to have second thoughts about buying a car. 
swear sb to All the researchers on the project are sworn to secrecy. 
in ~ The drugs squad operates in the greatest secrecy.
~ about The organization has managed to maintain secrecy about its activities. 
a blanket/cloak/veil of secrecy A blanket of secrecy surrounded the tribunals. 
hidden, inner, innermost, intimate That evening she had revealed many of her innermost secrets.
open Their affair is an open secret.
guard, keep Can you keep a secret?
betray, divulge, let sb in on/into, reveal, tell sb She let us into her secret?she'd got engaged.
be/get out How did the secret get out? 
in ~ The film stars were married in secret to avoid publicity.
~ about There was some secret about the source of his wealth.
~ from I have no secrets from you. 
make no secret of the fact that … , make a secret of sth He refuses to make any secret of his political allegiances. 
behind She revealed the secret behind her extraordinary success.
about They were very secretive about their plans. 
large, long Large sections of the forest have been destroyed by acid rain. a long section of roadway
personnel, political (in a company, an organization, etc.) He works in the embassy's political section.
divide sth into The book is divided into chapters, sections and sub-sections. 
in a/the ~ You'll find the book in the music section.
in ~s The table comes in sections.
under ~ (relating to a section of a law, etc.) The case was the first prosecution under Section 3A of the Road Traffic Act 1988. 
completely, purely It began as a religious organization, but these days it is purely secular.
essentially, largely We live in a largely secular society.
to The crates had not been properly secured to the truck.
with She secured the boat with a rope. 
easily Victory was not going to be easily secured.
fail to They failed to secure the release of the prisoners.
under ~ The attack victim is currently in hospital, under heavy sedation. 
infinitely These opportunities seemed infinitely seductive.
almost His words had a soothing, almost seductive quality. 
produce, set This tree produces very hard seeds. The plant will set seed in June.
grow/raise sth from She grew all the broccoli plants from seed.
spread Most seeds are spread by the wind.
go/run to Allow some of the plants to run to seed, and save the seed for next year. 
a variety of seeds The catalogue has hundreds of different varieties of seeds. 
top Venus Williams was the top seed at Wimbledon this year. 
away, out, through The power had gradually seeped away. 
from Blood was seeping slowly from the wound.
into, out of Water was seeping out of the tank.
through The damp seeped through her thin shoes. 
according to, by Jobs were strictly segregated by gender.
from The women were segregated from the male workers in the factory.
into The common room was segregated into smoking and non-smoking areas. 
highly segregated Women's work has always been highly segregated.
immediately, suddenly He was immediately seized and thrown into prison. 
by She seized him by the arm.
from He seized the book from her hand. 
seize hold of sb/sth The wrestlers try to seize hold of each other. 
immediately, promptly She promptly seized the opportunity his absence gave her.
be quick to, be ready to He was quick to seize on this idea.
fail to He had failed to seize his chance. 
on/upon The rumours were eagerly seized on by the local press. 
arbitrarily, at random, randomly The winning entry will be selected at random by computer.
automatically The program automatically selects and stores the most frequently used data.
according to The design of the course allows students to select modules according to their interests.
for She has been selected for the England team.
from You can select goods from our catalogue. 
highly selected Although this was a very highly selected study group, the results were in agreement with our findings.
well selected This anthology is well selected and presented. 
necessarily The list provided here is necessarily selective.
notoriously The human memory is notoriously selective.
about He is quite selective about what he studies.
in Most of the girls are extremely selective in their choice of boyfriends. 
make sb He studied her in a way that made her very self-conscious. 
about He started to get self-conscious about his weight. 
by no means These truths were by no means self-evident when Galileo first suggested them.
to It was self-evident to her that anything so wonderful could not have evolved accidentally. 
basically People are basically selfish. 
wave He felt a sudden wave of self-pity. VERB + SELF-PITY wallow in 
in These people have now become almost self-sufficient in grain crops. 
lack The film lacks any semblance of realism.
drop, lose He dropped all semblance of dignity and rushed down the street after her.
bring, give sth She struggled to bring a semblance of order to the meeting.
in/into a/the ~ of She bared her teeth in a semblance of a smile.
~ of He tried to restore some semblance of normality to their home life. 
merican, US
Democratic, Republican
former the former US Senator, James Hurley 
by ~ Promotion in the job was by seniority. 
in order of seniority, a level of seniority, next in seniority On the death of the captain, the officer next in seniority assumed command. 
have He has an acute sense of smell.
lose She lost her sense of hearing early in life.
appeal to He argued that art should appeal to the senses rather than the intellect. 
tell sb When she came to, her senses told her she was lying on a sandy beach.
reel, swim Her senses reeled as she fought for consciousness. 
through the ~s Although he can't see, he learns a lot through his other senses. 
deep, great, keen, strong, tremendous He felt a deep sense of relief after the phone call.
of He seems to have lost his sense of reality. 
business, dress He has no dress sense. 
common, horse Common sense tells me I should get more sleep. 
have He at least had the sense to call the police.
learn I wish my daughter would learn some sense. 
have more money than sense, (not) an ounce of sense If you had an ounce of sense, you'd never have agreed to help him. 
perfect It all makes perfect sense (= is easy to understand). 
see I tried to make him see sense, but he just wouldn't listen.
talk If you can't talk sense, I'm leaving! 
in There's a lot of sense in what he's saying. 
talk sense into sb We'll try and talk a little sense into her.
there's no sense in sth There's no sense in going home before the film. 
take leave of Have you taken leave of your senses?
in your (right) senses No one in their right senses would give him the job! 
broad, wide The novel is about education in its widest sense.
have That word has three senses.
make That sentence doesn't make sense (= has no meaning). 
in a ~ In a sense, she's right. 
in every sense of the word, in a very real sense In a very real sense, post-war repression was the continuation of the war.
absolutely, quite It was an absolutely senseless act of violence. 
be, lie He lay senseless out in the rain.
beat sb, kick sb, knock sb The thugs beat him senseless with a baseball bat. The branch of a tree knocked one of the riders senseless. 
make sb Her experiences had made her sensitive to other people's troubles. 
to Horses are very sensitive to their riders' moods. 
about Teenagers are often very sensitive about their appearance.
to He was acutely sensitive to criticism. 
to Her eyes are very sensitive to light. 
be The bat's hearing is remarkably sensitive. 
acutely, especially, exquisitely, extremely, highly, keenly, remarkably, very The equipment is highly sensitive.
enough, sufficiently The probe is sensitive enough to detect the presence of a single microbe. 
long, short Try to keep your sentences short.
finish Peter finished Jane's sentence for her.
construct, form, formulate, generate, write He can barely form a grammatical sentence.
contain sth, have sth Does the sentence contain an adverb? 
mandatory The judge imposed the mandatory sentence for murder.
hand down, impose, pass, pronounce The judge will pass sentence on the accused this afternoon.
serve He will have to serve a life sentence.
await He spent a week in custody on remand awaiting sentence.
face She could face a long prison sentence.
commute, reduce The death sentence may be commuted to life imprisonment.
carry The offence carries a maximum sentence of two years in prison. 
under ~ (of) He has been in prison for two months under sentence of death.
fine, lofty, noble All these noble sentiments have little chance of being put into practice.
anti-British, anti-Japanese, etc.
moral, religious The people are renowned for their deep religious sentiment. 
agree with, echo, endorse, share He agrees with the sentiments expressed in the editorial.
s about/on It would be a mistake to ignore their strong sentiments on the issue.
~ against The killings at the weekend helped arouse popular sentiment against the organization.
my sentiments exactly (= I agree) ‘I don't see why we should change our plans just because of him.’ ‘My sentiments exactly.’ 
keep sb/sth The women are kept separate from the men.
very, widely I kept my two lives very separate. species from widely separate parts of the world
absolutely, completely, entirely, quite, totally, wholly The waste water is kept entirely separate from the rainwater.
essentially The two groups are essentially separate and independent.
long She is visiting her family after a long separation.
between the separation between Mary and her husband
do, make, write He's been asked to make a sequel to ‘Peter Pan’. 
in a/the~ Some important new characters appear in the sequel.
have The affair had a strange sequel. 
to The immediate sequel to the price rises was uprisings across the country. 
flight, platoon > Note at RANK 
detective Detective Sergeant Peter Wiles
desk, duty, station Visitors to the police station should report to the station sergeant. 
become, get By this time the riots were getting serious.
be, look, sound Come on, be serious!
become, turn He became serious all of a sudden. 
about Are you serious about resigning? 
during/in a/the ~ He fell asleep during the sermon.
~ against He gave a long sermon against abortion.
~ on She preached a sermon on forgiveness. 
immediately Pour the sauce over the pasta and serve immediately. 
be ready to Cover and chill the salad until ready to serve. 
to They served a wonderful meal to more than 50 delegates.
with The delegates were served with a wonderful meal. Serve the lamb with new potatoes and green beans. 
serve sth chilled/cold/hot The quiche can be served hot or cold. 
faithfully, loyally, well She served the family faithfully for many years (= as a servant). 
as I shall continue to serve as a trustee.
in She served in the medical corps.
under He served under John Major in the early 1990s. 
fully, properly The car was fully serviced last month.
have/get sth serviced You should get all gas appliances regularly serviced. 
get (used when starting a race) Get set … Go! 
all Are you all set? Let's go! 
for The Italian team looks set for victory. 
against Her father is dead set against the marriage.
on The council is now set on expanding the sports centre. 
experience, receive, suffer His research has suffered a temporary setback. 
unlikely The hospital is an unlikely setting for an art auction.
social The French Club offers the chance to practise your language skills in a social setting.
work In a work setting, more formal language would be used.
create, provide The park provides the perfect setting for the play. 
~ in a dramatic setting in Cornwall
~ of the rural setting of Petrarch's sonnets 
at a/the ~ The oven should be at a high setting. 
fairly, quite She seems fairly settled in her new job already.
comfortably, happily He is happily settled with third wife Gladys and their two children. 
move in/into sth When the first settlers moved into the area they faced immense hardships.
establish, found French settlers founded New Orleans. 
from settlers from France
~ in Dutch settlers in Cape Town 
mock She wagged her finger with mock severity. 
dump, pump In some parts of the country raw sewage is pumped straight in the sea.
treat Sewage should be treated in a proper disposal system. 
opposite At that age they can started becoming shy with the opposite sex.
change She's had a sex change operation.
the battle of the sexes The quiz is a battle of the sexes between a team of male students and a team of female students.
irrespective/regardless of sex The word ‘man’ can refer to all humans, irrespective of sex. 
unlawful He was convicted of having unlawful sex with an underage girl.
explicit, gratuitous Films containing explicit sex are banned. 
engage in, have She had never had sex before.
appeal Despite his age, he still has a lot of sex appeal.
maniac He had a reputation of being a sex maniac.
symbol She wants to be known as a singer rather than as a sex symbol.
occur, take place Rape is committed where sexual intercourse takes place without consent. 
~ with She denied having had sexual intercourse with him. 
extremely, incredibly, really, very I find him incredibly sexy.
into the ~ Let's move into the shade.
~ from The huge trees offered shade from the sun. 
delicate, light, muted, pale, pastel, soft, subtle, translucent The rooms were decorated in delicate pastel shades.
dark, deep, rich, strong His face turned an even deeper shade of red.
autumnal, natural, neutral, warm Towels in warm shades can soften the room. 
be available in, come in This wool is available in 18 stunning shades. 
in a ~ The sea glistened in shades of blue and emerald.
~ of He threw out his old suits, all in shades of grey and brown. 
lift, mine (also mineshaft) A fire broke out in the main lift shaft.
down a/the ~ The body had been thrown down a disused mineshaft.
in/into a/the ~, through a/the ~ The workers go down to the tunnels through a vertical shaft sunk from the top of the cliff. 
the bottom/top of a shaft They lowered him down to the bottom of the deep shaft. 
badly, uncontrollably, violently Her hands were shaking so badly that she couldn't hold her glass.
almost He was almost shaking with the intensity of what he was saying.
fairly (informal) Natalie fairly shook with laughter.
literally, physically I was numb with dread. I was literally shaking. 
with She was shaking with rage. 
be shaking all over He was crying and shaking all over.
be shaking like a leaf, find yourself/start shaking I found myself shaking uncontrollably with cold.
stop shaking I just couldn't stop shaking. 
roughly, vigorously, violently He shook the blankets vigorously to get rid of the dust. She must have shaken the baby quite violently to inflict such severe injuries.
well Shake well before use. (instructions on a bottle of medicine, etc.)
by He shook her gently by the shoulders. 
just, merely, only, simply He merely shook his head.
at He shook his head at her disbelievingly.
in She shook her head in disbelief. 
shake sb by the hand Our host shook each of us warmly by the hand. PHRASAL VERBS shake sb/sth off 
easily He had not easily shaken Claudine off.
can't/couldn't (seem to) I can't seem to shake off this cold.
boardroom, council, personnel VERB + SHAKE-UP need
call for The paper calls for an urgent shake-up in the system for looking after the elderly.
plan The headline read ‘Local council plans shake-up’.
face, go through, have, undergo Police forces face the biggest shake-up in their 150-year history.
survive My job did not survive the shake-up. 
become, get The water gets quite shallow towards the shore.
comparatively, fairly, quite, relatively Don't worry, the water's quite shallow.
enough, sufficiently Follow the south shore, crossing the river where it is shallow enough. 
appear, be, seem Tony seemed very shallow and immature. 
publicly The people who did this deserve to be publicly shamed. 
into An outcry from customers has shamed the company into lowering its prices. 
basic, simple The children cut the paper into various simple shapes.
characteristic, distinctive I recognized the distinctive shape of a Boeing-747.
awkward The desk was an awkward shape and wouldn't fit through the door.
arrow, banana, cross, pear, star, T, etc. The road forms an L shape. The bruise was a sort of mushroom shape.
body You can't change your natural body shape. 
cut out, draw, make, trace First draw the rough shape of your chosen animal. Fold the paper to make the shape of a cone.
cut sth into, make sth in, produce sth in a cheese similar to Brie but produced in a different shape
come in, have Tables come in various shapes.
assume, make, take on Ordinary things assumed different shapes in the mist.
keep, retain These garments will retain their shape even with repeated washing.
distort The wide-angle lens distorts shapes.
distinguish, make out, see I could just make out the shapes of animals in the field. 
appear, emerge, loom Ghostly shapes loomed out of the fog. 
out of shape The bicycle had been battered out of shape.
oblong/rectangular/hexagonal, etc. in shape The island is roughly circular in shape. 
alter, change, determine, influence He did much to determine the 
in any shape or form I can't stand insects in any shape or form.
the shape of things to come This revolutionary transport system could be the shape of things to come. 
physical He's 64, but he's in better physical shape than I am. 
get sb/sth into, knock/lick/whip sb/sth into Get your body into shape for the summer! Leave the boy with me?I'll soon knock him into shape!
be in, keep in, stay in You are in pretty good shape for your age. She likes to stay in shape.
awkwardly All the rooms in the house were awkwardly shaped.
specially You can buy specially shaped bricks for an arch. 
fully Personal experience of childbirth gives a dimension of knowledge that others cannot fully share.
equally We shared the money equally between the three of us.
be entitled to Each partner is entitled to share in the profits of the business.
let sb She wished he would let her share his pain. 
among How do you share out three cakes among four people?
between Responsibility is shared between parents and teachers.
in He shared in our enthusiasm for rowing.
with She had to share a bedroom with her sister. 
widely shared These ideas are widely shared in the community. 
shark-infested The boat went down in shark-infested waters off the coast of South Africa. 
shatter (sth) into pieces The mirror shattered into a thousand pieces. 
abruptly, brutally, rudely, suddenly The moment was abruptly shattered by the sound of Mia's loud voice. 
close, smooth You can get a really close, smooth shave with this new double-bladed razor. 
need He badly needed a shave.
get, have He had a bath and a quick shave first.
crumpled She had slept in her bed?the sheets were crumpled.
change, fold, put on, tuck in She changed the sheets on all the beds. Could you put some fresh sheets on the bed?
climb between, slide between, slip between/under I slipped under the sheets and was asleep in an instant.
cover sb/sth with, pull back/over/up The police had covered the body with a sheet. I pulled the sheet up over my nose. 
between the ~ She lay between the cool sheets. 
blank, clean He pulled a blank sheet of paper towards him and began to write.
A3, A4, etc.
printed, typed The advertisement was a single printed sheet.
answer, balance, data, diet, fact, information, news, record, score I sent for the programme's free fact sheet on the disease. 
take, use Take a clean sheet of paper and start again. 
dust The furniture was covered in dust sheets.
ice the Antarctic ice sheet 
of a sheet of glass/plastic/metal (figurative) Sheets of flame shot into the air. 
broken, empty, hard, outer, protective, thick (figurative) She had built up a protective shell of indifference around herself.
cockle, conch, cowrie, fossil, mollusc, mussel, oyster, scallop, sea (also seashell), snail The garden was littered with empty snail shells.
come out of, emerge from (often figurative) He's really come out of his shell since he met Marie.
go (back) into, retreat into, withdraw into The snail went back into its shell.
remove sth from Remove the mussels from their shells. 
hit sth, strike sth Two shells hit the roof.
fire They braved heavy shell fire to rescue the wounded.
burnt-out, empty, hollow The fire reduced the school to a hollow shell. 
snugly, well The farmyard was snugly sheltered with buildings on three sides.
have I'll have a small sherry, please.
carefully He carefully shielded the flame with his cupped hand. 
against She raised her hand to shield her eyes against the sun.
with He shielded her with his body. 
slightly Julie shifted her position slightly and smiled.
impatiently, restlessly, uncomfortably, uneasily She shifted uncomfortably in her chair.
from She shifted her gaze away from the group of tourists.
onto He shifted his weight onto his left foot.
to Her eyes shifted to his face. 
dramatically, markedly The emphasis has shifted markedly in recent years.
simply We cannot simply shift the responsibility onto someone else.
away) from I felt the advantage had suddenly shifted away from us.
onto, to His sympathies rapidly shifted to the side of the workers.
towards These changes will shift the balance in higher education more towards science subjects. 
brightly, brilliantly The sun was shining brightly.
down, in, out Sunlight shone in through the window. 
seem to (figurative) She seemed to shine with an inner radiance.
make sth You've really made that floor shine! 
at The watchman shone his torch at us.
from (figurative) Love and pride shone from her eyes.
in The water was shining faintly in the moonlight.
like The dark wood shone like glass.
on/upon The light shone on his face.
with (figurative) His dark eyes shone with excitement. 
escort An armed patrol boat will escort the shipment.
seize Customs officers have seized a large shipment of cocaine. 
onward taken to Aqaba in Jordan for onward shipment to Brazil
from to arrange a shipment from India
~ to illegal shipment of arms to the Third World 
give She gave a little shiver and laughed.
feel He felt a shiver of excitement.
send His appearance sent a cold shiver down her spine.
suppress She tried to suppress a shiver of anticipation. 
go, pass, ripple, run A shiver of unease ran through the audience. 
with a ~ ‘I'm scared, ’ she admitted, with a shiver.
give sb the shivers Just thinking about flying gives me the shivers. 
first, initial Once the initial shock had worn off, I got to like my new hairstyle.
culture It was a bit of a culture shock when I first came to this country. 
feel, get, have She felt shock that he would be capable of such an act. I got a terrible shock when I saw him.
be in for If you think it's going to be easy you're in for a shock!
die of (informal) I nearly died of shock when your mother appeared.
in ~ She looked round in shock.
with a ~ She realized with a sudden shock that she was being followed.
~ to This news came as a great shock to me. 
a bit/something of a shock, quite/rather a shock, a hell of a shock, in a state of shock I think I'm still in a state of shock.
a feeling/sense of shock, the shock of your life (informal), a shock to the system (informal) The low wages came as something of a shock to her system. 
mild He gave himself a mild electric shock while changing a light bulb.
be in, be suffering from, suffer He was in deep shock after the accident.
go into He had gone into shock and was shaking violently.
badly, deeply, genuinely, greatly, profoundly, quite, really, terribly, truly, very The passengers were badly shocked but unharmed.
at They were shocked at how the children had been treated.
by She was visibly shocked by the conditions she witnessed in the refug 
mend, reheel, repair, resole I've had my shoes resoled.
pinch sth The shoes, though elegant, pinched her feet terribly. 
the heel/sole/toe of a shoe > Special page at CLOTHES 
have This plant hasn't got any shoots yet.
develop, produce, put out, send out These shrubs will need more light to produce flowering shoots. 
appear, come up, develop, emerge, grow, sport Keep the bulbs in a cool dark place until shoots appear. 
fashion, film, photo, photographic, video a five-day photo shoot in Cyprus
on a/the ~ He goes out on shoots with very little equipment. 
duty-free She bought 400 cigarettes at the airport duty-free shop.
charity I gave all my old books to a charity shop.
mobile Mobile shops are invaluable to people in rural areas.
one-stop This is your one-stop shop for all your holiday needs. 
parade, row The post office is at the end of the row of shops.
chain The brothers opened a chain of electrical shops in the eighties. 
open, set up She opened a flower shop in the High Street. (figurative) Some buskers had set up shop outside the station.
close, shut (up) At 5.30 she shuts up shop and goes home. 
offer sth The shop offers a large selection of leather goods at reasonable prices.
around/round a/the ~ I went around all the shops but I couldn't find a present for him.
at a/the ~ There was was a break-in at that new shop last night.
in a/the ~ She works part-time in a shop. 
spree They stole thousands of pounds' worth of goods in a two-day shoplifting spree. > Note at CRIME(for verbs) 
put away, unpack They unpacked the shopping and put it away. 
weekend, weekly, week's I do my weekly shopping on a Saturday.
Christmas
home, Internet the move towards home shopping using your computer
do, go (out) She's doing some last-minute Christmas shopping. I have to go shopping in town this afternoon. 
expedition, spree, trip She won £10,000 and immediately went on a shopping spree.
across/through Take the short cut across the fields.
~ to There are no short cuts to economic recovery. 
be affected by, be hampered by, face, have, suffer (from) Industry is facing a serious labour shortage.
alleviate, deal with, ease, meet, overcome, solve, tackle The recent heavy rains have helped to ease the water shortage.
exacerbate The energy shortages were exacerbated by the severe winter. 
cause sth, lead to sth A shortage of resources has led to a cutback. 
because of/due to a/the ~ Lives are being put at risk because of staff shortages.
~ in Their economy continued to suffer shortages in raw materials.
considerably, dramatically, significantly The course has now been shortened considerably. 
by His driving ban has been shortened by a year.
from, to The waiting time has been shortened dramatically from eight weeks to just one week. 
compile, draw up The interviewers have to draw up a shortlist of five or six people.
put sb on I think we should put her on our shortlist.
choose from They will choose from a shortlist of seven candidates. 
~ for The film is on the shortlist for Best Picture.
cannon, gun, pistol, rifle I heard a pistol shot. 
series, volley A volley of shots rang out. 
fire, take I took a few more shots at the target, but missed every time. 
hit sb/sth, strike sb/sth The shot hit him in the upper chest.
~ to She was killed by a single shot to the head. 
crack, good, excellent She is a crack shot with a rifle.
crack/get in, have, take, try Go on?take another shot.
block, parry, save The goalkeeper parried his first shot but he scored from the rebound. 
go wide, miss My first shot went wide, but my second was right on target. 
at/on Their captain tried a long shot on goal.
~ from his right-footed shot from outside the penalty area a superb shot from Rivaldo > Special page at SPORT 
get, take I got some great shots of the runners as they crossed the line. 
show sth a wide-angle shot showing the Houses of Parliament 
get, have Have you had all your shots for your holiday yet? 
of a shot of penicillin The applause acted on her like a shot of adrenalin. 
dislocated, frozen His frozen shoulder has stopped him playing tennis. 
blade, bones, joint, muscle, socket The bullet hit him squarely between the shoulder blades.
width Keep the feet shoulder width apart.
over your ~ He slung the sack over his shoulder and set off. 
a pat on the shoulder He gave me a reassuring pat on the shoulder.
shoulder to shoulder The route of the procession was lined with police officers standing shoulder to shoulder.
tap sb on the shoulder I tapped the man on the shoulder and asked him to move. 
shrug When I asked him why he'd done it he just shrugged his shoulders.
hunch He hunched his shoulders against the cold wind. 
be bent, be bowed, be stooped She was crouched with her head forward and her shoulders bent.
droop, drop, sag, slump My shoulders dropped with relief.
lift, shrug Her shoulders lifted in a vague shrug.
heave, shake, twitch His enormous shoulders heaved with sobs.
on your ~s The child sat on her father's shoulders to watch the parade go by. 
hear I heard her warning shout too late.
give sb (figurative) Give me a shout if you'd like to come with us. 
echo, go up A great shout of excitement went up as she crossed the finishing line. 
with a ~ With a shout of pain, he pulled his hand away from the hot stove.
~ from There were shouts of laughter from the crowd.
a shout of anger/alarm/pain, a shout of laughter, a shout of victory > Note at SOUND 
give sb/sth Harry gave him a hefty shove and he fell over. 
with a ~ She sent him off with a little shove. 
radio, television/TV
Punch and Judy, puppet
sb's own She finally got her own TV show.
see, watch Did you see the Lenny Henry Show last night?
feature sb/sth, star sb a live show featuring the best of Irish talent 
on a/the ~ (only used about television and radio shows) I saw her on a chat show yesterday. 
the star of the show The dog was the real star of the show. > Note at PERFORMANCE(for more verbs) 
have, hold, organize, put on They are holding a big fashion show at the Hilton tonight.
feature The show features the work of local artists. 
at a/the ~ There were more than 500 exhibitors at the trade show.
on ~ (being shown for people to look at) The paintings are on show until April. 
make, put on Although she hated him, she put on a show of politeness.
be all He shouts a lot but it's all show. 
for ~ She pretends to be interested in opera, but it's only for show.
~ of He made a great show of welcoming us. 
a show of force/strength The Democrats organized a show of strength, a mass rally in Central Park. 
final The scene was set for the final showdown.
title, World Cup, etc. 
force, seek He was now strong enough to force a showdown with them. 
against the showdown against Holland in April
~ between the title showdown between Arsenal and United
~ over The council is heading for a showdown over the new proposals.
~ with Britain's World Cup showdown with Australia last month 
it comes to a showdown (= a showdown happens) Of course I'll support you if it comes to a showdown. 
make, put up The opposing team put up a very strong showing.
improve on The team will have to improve on today's showing if it is to survive in the competition. 
on sb's ~ On its present showing, the party should win the election.
~ by/from It was a great showing by the Brazilian team. 
attend, go to The young princes attended a private showing of the new Disney film.
flying He was hit in the arm by flying shrapnel. 
fly, whistle The bomb exploded, sending shrapnel whistling through the trees. 
finely Shred the lettuce leaves finely. 
all but, almost He all but shrieked when he saw her. 
at Stop shrieking at me!
in She shrieked in terror.
with The audience shrieked with laughter. 
by Their profits shrank by 4% last year.
from, to Their share of the market has shrunk from 14% to 5%. 
shrink in size Households have been shrinking in size but increasing in number. 
a little He shrank a little at the sight of the blood.
against He shrank back against the wall.
in She shrank back in terror.
into I shrank back into the shadows.
from She shrank from his touch. 
cut back, prune Overgrown deciduous shrubs can be cut back at this time of year. 
grow Tender shrubs don't grow well here.
be planted with shrubs The bed is planted with flowering shrubs.
carelessly, dismissively, indifferently, negligently, nonchalantly She shrugged nonchalantly and turned away.
helplessly, ruefully He shrugged helplessly and said nothing.
just, merely, only, simply He merely shrugged his shoulders in reply. PHRASAL VERBS shrug sth off 
be able to, can/could, try to The team have been able to shrug off their recent failures and perform well.
involuntarily She shuddered involuntarily as he approached her.
make sb The sight of the dead body made them shudder. 
at She shuddered at the memory of school exams.
through A deep sigh shuddered through her body.
with His whole body shuddered with fury. 
bang, blow, clang, click, clunk, slam, slide, swing The window blew shut. The elevator door slid shut.
be clenched, be jammed His jaw was clenched shut.
bang sth, kick sth, leave sth, pull sth, slam sth, slide sth, snap sth I'll leave the window shut for now. He slammed the case shut. She snapped shut a file on her desk.
keep sth The gates are always kept shut. (figurative) Afraid to ask seemingly stupid questions, I kept my mouth shut. 
firmly, properly, tightly The door was firmly shut. 
be, look The bars all look shut to me.
for The park is now shut for the winter. 
bus, flight, service, train The supermarket operates a complimentary shuttle service.
on a/the ~ We'll fly up on the shuttle.
~ between the shuttle between Adrar and Oran
~ from, ~ to I took the Eastern Airlines shuttle from Washington to New York. 
at Her horse shied violently at a gorse bush. 
elder/older, younger The younger children were badly treated by older siblings. 
cure, heal the Church's mission to preach the gospel and heal the sick 
the sick and wounded The sick and wounded were evacuated from the war zone. 
cause, have, produce The treatment has some unfortunate side effects.
from The patient suffered severe side effects from the drug.
~ of The drug has the beneficial side effect of lowering the patient's blood pressure.
~ on The medication can have adverse side effects on the patient. 
lucrative, nice (little), profitable, useful He decided to turn his hobby into a lucrative sideline. 
for Cider making was a sideline for many farmers.
~ in She is developing a nice little sideline in childminding for friends.
~ to The restaurant started out as a sideline to his main business. 
have, take Lots of people were taking a short siesta in the shade. 
for a ~ I went upstairs for my afternoon siesta. 
finely Sift the flour finely before adding it to the mixture.
in, together Beat the mixture until smooth, then sift in the remaining sugar. 
through They spent days carefully sifting through the evidence. 
deeply, heavily She sighed heavily and sat down.
contentedly, happily She looked at her son and sighed happily.
wearily He sighed wearily as he looked at the pile of work. 
in He sighed in exasperation.
with We sighed with relief when the noise stopped. 
UFO 
have We now have three confirmed sightings of an enemy plane.
follow up, investigate The police are now following up a number of reported sightings of the missing woman's car. 
external, outward, visible All the outward signs of growth in the market are there.
early, first Strong likes or dislikes of various foods are another of the early signs of pregnancy.
encouraging, good, healthy, hopeful, positive, welcome He was silent. It was a good sign.
danger, ominous, warning Are appliances you buy safe? We point out the danger signs. 
bear, have The murder had all the signs of a crime of passion.
exhibit, display, give, show By now the fish was showing signs of distress.
detect, find, see, watch out for We detected signs that they were less than enthusiastic about the holiday.
look for Look carefully for signs of damp.
appear, come The first signs of spring appeared.
indicate sth, point to sth All the signs pointed to it being more than just a coincidence. 
at a/the ~ He disappeared at the first sign of trouble.
from ~ The villages regarded the earthquake as a sign from God.
sign of life There was no sign of life in the house (= there seemed to be nobody there).
a sign of the times It's a real sign of the times: 30 small businesses face financial ruin this month.
little/no/not the least/not the slightest sign (of sb/sth) He spoke up without the slightest sign of nervousness. 
‘Stop’
‘For sale’, ‘No Smoking’, ‘To let’ 
erect, hang out/up, hold up, put up Some of the marchers were holding up signs and placards. Someone had put up a ‘For Sale’ sign.
follow Just follow the signs for Bridgend. 
read sth, say sth The sign read ‘No Fishing’.
indicate sth This sign 
for/to Follow the road and you'll see signs for the turn-off. 
thumbs-up, V 
give (sb), make She gave me a thumbs-up sign.
communicate through They had to communicate through signs and grunts. 
make the sign of the cross The priest made the sign of the cross over the dead body. 
draw, make The wizard drew some strange signs in the air with his wand.
use I used the Chinese sign for ‘father’ instead of ‘uncle’. 
mean sth What does this sign mean? 
for I can't remember the sign for ‘square root’. 
of people born under the sign of Gemini 
the signs of the Zodiac 
wrong Laughing when you should be crying sends out the wrong signals to people.
arrange He had arranged a signal for the band to begin.
give (sb), make, send (out) When I give the signal, run!
interpret (sth as), read, see sth as The remark was seen as a signal that their government was ready to return to the peace talks.
pick up, respond to Interviewers quickly learn to pick up non-verbal signals.
act as The insect's bright colours act as warning signals to its predators. 
at/on a ~ At a pre-arranged signal, everyone started cheering.
~ for She made a signal for the car to stop.
~ from/to Wait for the signal from the leader of your group. 
be (on) red/green The traffic signals were on red.
acoustic, analogue, audio, chemical, digital, electrical, electronic, light, radar, radio, sonar, sound, television/TV, video, wireless 
carry, pass The nerves carry these signals to the brain.
convert (sth into), scramble, unscramble The signal is scrambled into code before it is sent.
detect, pick up, receive, respond to This equipment can detect very low frequency signals. 
travel A light signal can travel well over 16km before it halves in intensity.
authorized The document must be signed by an authorized signatory of the company.
agree sth Signatories agreed to support the nuclear test ban. 
full, general, wider The scientists are cautious about the wider significance of their findings.
real, true They failed to appreciate the true significance of these discoveries.
have The ceremony has great symbolic significance.
acquire, assume, gain, take on Suddenly his son's relationship with the girl took on a new significance.
attach Let us not attach too much significance to these meetings.
lie in sth The significance of this lies in the fact that he had previously denied all knowledge of the fund.
attach to sth Does any significance attach to the use of the technical terms? 
for/to a meal that has particular significance for a Jewish family
ikhism noun > Note at RELIGION 
effectively Criticism has now been effectively silenced.
abruptly, instantly Her scream was abruptly silenced. 
fail to Even these improvements to the service failed to silence a grumbling chorus of complaints. 
with She silenced him with a glare. 
in ~ He drew the city in silhouette.
~ against I could see its black silhouette against the evening sky. 
Chinese, Thai, etc. 
produce fine silks produced in Italy
fine The water contains fine silt. 
deposit During the annual floods the river deposits its silt on the fields. 
extremely, remarkably, strikingly, uncannily, very The three portraits are remarkably similar.
superficially Their experiences are superficially similar.
in The two houses are similar in size.
to Snake meat tastes similar to chicken. 
gently, slowly Allow the soup to simmer gently for ten minutes.
quietly (figurative) She was still quietly simmering from her row with Nathan. 
apparent Don't be fooled by the music's apparent simplicity. 
for ~ For simplicity, I shall continue to use the general word ‘river’. 
be simplicity itself (= to be very simple) His solution to the problem was simplicity itself.
considerably, greatly The whole process has now been greatly simplified.
drastically, grossly He presents the theory in a grossly simplified form.
highly simplified This is a highly simplified view of the economy. 
closely The device simulates conditions in space quite closely. 
be designed to, be used to Models are used to simulate the workings of a real-life system.
besetting The besetting sin of 18th-century urban Britain was drunkenness.
original the Christian doctrine of original sin 
confess They had confessed their sins and done their penance.
against Sin against others is seen as a sin against God. 
apparent ‘It's wonderful,’ he said with apparent sincerity. 
doubt, mistake, question There seems no reason to doubt the sincerity of his beliefs. There was no mistaking his sincerity.
be convinced of She wasn't yet convinced of his sincerity.
perform sth Singers took turns to perform songs they had written. 
buy, get I got a single to Birmingham. 
to A single to Stratford, please. 
play She was in her room playing her singles.
release (sth as) The band later released this album track as a single. 
by It was voted the best single by a solo artist.
~ from the new single from the band ‘Therapy?’ 
play I prefer playing singles to doubles.
win She won the junior singles. 
in the ~ She decided not to play in the singles. 
fill She filled the sink with hot water.
plunger I bought a sink plunger to clear the blocked kitchen sink. 
at the ~ She was at the sink, washing up the dinner things.
down the ~ Don't pour tea leaves down the kitchen sink?it'll get blocked.
in the ~ Put the dishes in the sink. 
have, take I took a little sip of my drink. 
in ~s He drank the whisky in sips. 
approaching The cars had stopped at the sound of the approaching siren.
put on, sound, switch on The ships all sounded their sirens.
blare, howl, scream, wail The ambulance sped off with its siren wailing.
die away The police siren died away into the hot night. 
still Just sit still!
quietly He would sit quietly and watch what was happening.
in silence We sat in silence for a few moments.
cross-legged, with your legs crossed The children sat cross-legged on the floor. She was sitting in her favourite chair with her legs crossed.
(bolt) upright He sat bolt upright, hands folded in front of him.
demurely, primly She sat demurely on the edge of her chair.
let sb Surely someone would stand up and let her sit down?
gesture for/to sb to, motion (for/to) sb to He motioned the young officer to sit down. 
at He was sitting at his desk.
beside She went and sat beside him.
in He sat back in his chair and started to read.
on Can I sit on this chair?
opposite They sat opposite each other. 
with His views did not sit comfortably with the management line. 
carefully, strategically The fence is strategically sited to prevent anyone getting onto the beach.
attractively, beautifully The hotel is beautifully sited by a lake in a steep valley.
awkward, delicate, difficult, embarrassing, sticky, stressful, tense, tricky, uncomfortable, unpleasant, vulnerable I always seem to get into sticky situations on holiday.
social Do you feel awkward in social situations?
be faced with, be placed in, encounter, face, find yourself in, get into I found myself in rather an awkward situation.
grasp, take in, understand She found it difficult to take in the situation.
ameliorate, defuse, ease, help, improve, rectify, remedy The peacekeepers are trained to defuse potentially explosive situations.
exploit, take advantage of He saw she was confused and he took full advantage of the situation.
aggravate, complicate, exacerbate Interfering now would only exacerbate the situation. 
arise, develop We will deal with that if the situation arises.
deteriorate, worsen The situation is deteriorating rapidly. 
in a/the ~ What would you do in this situation? 
the gravity/seriousness of the situation Given the gravity of the 
go We used to go skating on the lake in cold winters. 
world some of the skating world's leading choreographers > Special page at SPORT 
in a/the ~ The family house appears in several of her sketches.
~ by a series of sketches by John Constable
~ of He did some rough sketches of the costumes. > Note at ART 
brief, thumbnail The talk began with a thumbnail sketch of the political situation at that time.
of He gave us character sketches of all his eccentric relations. 
get into, go into The lorry went into a skid and crashed into the barrier. 
mark The police examined the skid marks to see how fast the car had been travelling. 
at I became skilful at drawing.
especially, extremely, highly, particularly, remarkably, very a highly skilled workforce Interviewing is a very skilled job.
with She wasn't very skilled with the camera yet. 
raw, tender There was a patch of raw skin on my back where the sun had burnt it.
puffy I examined the puffy skin under my eyes.
bare, naked The sheets felt nice next to his bare skin.
loose I picked up the kitten by the loose skin on its neck.
dead A lot of dust is made up of particles of dead skin. 
shed This snake sheds its skin eight times a year. 
glisten, glow Her skin was glistening with sweat after her run.
age They claim that this cream makes the skin age more slowly.
skin and bone The dog lost more and more weight, and was soon little more than skin and bone. 
crawl, prickle, tingle Just thinking about spiders makes my skin crawl. 
contact Avoid skin contact with the glue. 
against the/your ~ The sheets felt rough against her sunburnt skin.
beneath the/your ~ Beneath his skin, the muscles were tight with tension.
in the/your ~ The drugs reduce the inflammation in the skin.
through the/your ~ A network of veins showed through his skin.
under the/your ~ He discovered a lump under his skin so he went 
down, up He skipped lightly up the stairs. 
circular, flared, full, gathered, voluminous She tucked up her voluminous skirts to make room for Jane beside her.
smooth (down) She sat down, smoothing the skirt of her dress.
billow, swirl Her full skirt billowed around her as she danced.
ride up Her skirt rode up her thighs when she sat down. 
length > Special page at CLOTHES 
open We slept under the open sky.
autumn, January, etc.
light up The fireworks lit up the sky.
clear (up), lighten The rain stopped and the skies cleared.
be streaked with sth The sky was streaked with gold. 
across the ~ Black clouds spread across the sky.
against the ~ The eagle was black against the early morning sky.
from/out of the ~ A strange object dropped out of the sky.
in the ~ There was a kite high up in the sky.
~ above A helicopter appeared in the sky above them.
~ over patrolling the skies over the Channel 
the sky above/overhead Swallows darted about in the sky overhead.
take to the skies (= to go into the sky) Some vintage aircraft will be taking to the skies at this weekend's fair. 
loom, rise On all sides, skyscrapers rose like jagged teeth. 
become, go Let the reins go slack.
leave sth Leave the thread slightly slack to allow for movement. 
completely Some of the ropes were completely slack.
remain The antiques business remained slack. 
a bit, fairly, pretty, rather This season has been pretty slack for local hotels so far. 
in She knew she had been very slack in her church attendance recently. 
hard She ran out of the room and slammed the door as hard as she could.
back, down He said goodbye and slammed the phone down. 
against Kath's heart slammed against her ribs.
behind I heard the door slam behind him.
into The car skidded and slammed into a tree. 
slam (sth) shut He slammed the lid shut. 
~ for ‘Ruby Murray’ is rhyming slang for ‘curry’. 
hearty He gave his brother a hearty slap on the back to congratulate him. 
deliver, give sb His mum delivered a hard slap and sent him to bed.
with a ~ He hit the water with a resounding slap. 
a slap in the face (figurative) The closure of the school is a slap in the face to the local community. 
at, through He slashed through the rope.
with He slashed wildly at me with a knife. 
humanely The animals are all humanely slaughtered.
for Thousands of birds were slaughtered for their feathers. 
brutally, cruelly Hundreds of innocent civilians were cruelly slaughtered. 
domestic Their stated aim was to free women from domestic slavery. 
establish, introduce Chios is said to have introduced slavery into Greece.
in ~ They were living in slavery and poverty.
REM 
get, sleep, snatch Close your eyes and get some sleep now. Tom was in the front room sleeping the sleep of the dead. I snatched a few hours' sleep in the afternoon.
survive on They seem to survive on only a few hours' sleep a night.
induce, lull/send sb to using drugs to induce sleep The quiet music soon sent her to sleep.
drift in and out of He drifted in and out of sleep all night.
lose Don't lose sleep over it?we'll sort everything out in the morning.
catch up on I used Saturday to catch up on my sleep.
feign I feigned sleep when the ticket inspector came round. 
come Sleep came to her in snatches.
overcome sb, overtake sb Sleep finally overtook me. 
in your ~ He often walks and talks in his sleep. 
a wink of sleep I won't get a wink of sleep with that noise downstairs. 
disturbed, exhausted, fitful, restless, uneasy I woke up early after a disturbed sleep.
beauty Sorry but I need my beauty sleep. 
have Did you have a good sleep?
be in I was in a deep sleep when the phone rang.
drift into, fall into, sink into I immediately fell into a dead sleep.
awake/awaken/wake (sb) from He woke from a fitful sleep with a headache. 
a (good/poor) night's sleep You'll feel better after a good night's sleep. 
make sb The alcohol was making him sleepy. 
a bit, a little, quite, rather She was beginning to get a bit sleepy. 
remain The town remains sleepy despite the activity all around it. 
very Those trousers make you look very slender.
decidedly, very His musical achievements have been decidedly slender.
finely, thinly Slice the bread thinly.
off, up Slice up the mushrooms and fry them. 
into The axe sliced into her shoulder.
through The knife sliced through his ear. 
slice sth in half/two Slice the onion in two. 
slowly Tears slid slowly down his pale cheek.
noiselessly, quietly, silently The moon slid silently behind a cloud.
helplessly We slid helplessly down the slope.
away, back, backwards, down, forward, forwards, in, out, sideways The drawers slide in and out easily. (figurative) The eyes slid away from his own in embarrassment. 
begin to The melting snow began to slide from the sloping roofs. 
across, along, down, from, into, off, onto, out of, over, to, up, etc. She took the note and slid it quickly into her pocket. He slid off the couch and walked over to me. 
slide open The lift doors slid open. 
keep, remain, stay She works very hard to stay slim.
make sb Step exercises can help make you slim.
be, feel, look The seaweed felt cold and slimy. 
all The walls were all slimy and green. 
with The steps were slimy with moss. 
Freudian 
make She made a couple of unfortunate slips during the talk. 
a slip of the pen/tongue I didn't mean to say that?it was just a slip of the tongue. 
betting, pay, rejection, voting He got over fifty rejection slips before his novel was published. 
on a/the ~ He wrote the address on a slip of paper. 
become, get The concrete gets slippery when it's wet.
make sth The oil made the ground slippery and treacherous to walk on. 
a bit Watch out?the floor's a bit slippery. 
empty The ‘freedom to learn’ has become just another one of the government's empty slogans.
bear a T-shirt bearing the slogan ‘I Flirt, Therefore I Am’ 
on the ~ They fought the election on the slogan ‘The time has come’.
under a/the ~ protesting under the slogan ‘When women stop, everything stops’ 
steeply The ground slopes away steeply at the back of the house.
to The field slopes down to a small river.
agonizingly, desperately, frustratingly, painfully, tediously, tortuously Filming was painfully slow.
notoriously Civil court proceedings are notoriously slow.
noticeably He was noticeably slow to respond.
necessarily Genetic evolution is necessarily slow. 
at They are extremely slow at reaching decisions. 
in a/the ~ born in the slums of East London 
in a ~ The economy is in a slump.
into ~ The industry is sinking into slump.
~ in Estate agents were badly hit by the slump in property prices. 
cast The comments cast a slur on her character. 
against/on The joke was seen as a slur against the mentally ill. a slur on his good name 
give sb, land (sb) He longed to land her a good smack in the face.
with a ~ She brought her hand down on the water with a smack. 
become, get, grow The gap seemed to be getting smaller. The kite grew smaller and smaller and finally disappeared altogether.
remain, stay Choose plants that will stay quite small. 
for My coat was rather small for Bob. 
with a ~ The plate hit the floor with a smash.
~ of He heard the smash of breaking glass. 
in a/the ~ Four people were seriously injured in a head-on smash on the A45. 
hit He can hit a powerful overhead smash. 
liberally She smeared the cream liberally on her face. 
across, on, (all) over, with The child had smeared jam all over her face. 
heavily smeared with Their faces were heavily smeared with mud. 
properly, well I had a streaming cold, so I could not smell properly.
almost Snow fell so that you could almost smell the cold. 
strongly His clothes smelled strongly of fish.
faintly, slightly, vaguely He smelled faintly of sweat.
like It smells like rotten meat!
of The kitchen smelled sweetly of herbs and fruit. 
broadly, widely She put down her tools and smiled broadly.
faintly, slightly, thinly, wanly, weakly He looked at the mess and smiled weakly.
dazzlingly, happily, radiantly, warmly Lawrence nodded, smiling happily.
encouragingly, indulgently, reassuringly The doctor smiled reassuringly.
ruefully, wryly Molly smiled rather wryly and said nothing.
back He smiled at her, and she smiled back. 
make sb The memory still made her smile. 
at He turned and smiled at me.
with She smiled with pleasure. 
smile from ear to ear, smile to yourself She smiled to herself, picturing how surprised her mother would be to see her. 
heavily He has always smoked heavily. 
lightly The ham is cured, then lightly smoked. 
give up, quit, stop I'm trying to give up smoking.
cut down on The doctor advised me to cut down on smoking and alcohol.
ban A total smoking ban has been imposed throughout the building.
no smoking The company has a strict no smoking policy.
carefully, gently She smoothed his hair gently.
back, down, out Her mother smoothed back Alice's hair. Use an iron to smooth out any creases. 
into goods which have been smuggled into Britain
out of Friends managed to smuggle him secretly out of the country. 
quick We stopped at a service station for a quick snack.
cook (sb), fix (sb), make (sb), prepare I fixed myself a light snack.
provide (sb with), serve A bar service provides drinks and snacks throughout the day. 
lunch, meal, time Most office staff prefer a snack lunch to a sit-down meal.
bar, counter, kiosk > Special page at FOOD 
at) a snail's pace Traffic had slowed to a snail's pace. 
suddenly The branch suddenly snapped. 
snap (sth) in half/two She picked up the pencil and snapped it in two. 
snap (sth) open/shut She snapped the lid shut.
snap (sth) together The plastic pieces snap together to make a replica of a dinosaur. 
back ‘How should I know?’ Zen snapped back. 
at He lost his temper and snapped irritably at the children. 
finally My patience finally snapped. 
catch, hear, overhear We caught snatches of conversation from the room next door.
hum, sing He was humming a snatch of a song from ‘Cabaret’. 
in ~es She learnt to sleep in brief snatches. 
give He gave an arrogant sneer.
~ at The prime minister resisted a sneer at his opponent's misfortune. 
give, let out She gave a loud sniff of disapproval.
between ~s ‘I'm sorry,’ he said between sniffs.
with a ~ ‘I'm fine,’ she said with a sniff.
~ at The dog had a good sniff at the bushes around the garden. 
a sniff of disapproval > Note at SOUND 
interesting He passed on any interesting snippets of information he could glean from his colleagues. 
from The article gave a few snippets from her forthcoming memoirs.
frame, game We played a couple of frames of snooker in the evening. 
league > Special page at SPORT 
give, let out He gave a snort of contempt.
with a ~ ‘What a mess they made of it,’ said Sam with a snort of derision.
a snort of derision/disgust, a snort of laughter She let out a loud snort of laughter. > Note at SOUND 
fine, light The plants were covered in fine snow.
compacted, crisp, frozen, hard, packed The crisp snow crunched as we walked through it. The frozen snow was treacherous to walk on.
drifting, driving, falling, swirling They struggled on through the driving snow.
artificial They had to use artificial snow at the Winter Olympics.
inch Three inches of snow fell had fallen. 
be covered in The car was completely covered in snow.
clear, shovel, sweep She cleared the snow from the path. 
cover sth, lie, pile (up), settle Snow covered everything from horizon to horizon. Snow had piled up against the walls of the cottage. It was too warm for the snow to settle.
across ~ They travelled across the snow in a sleigh.
in/into ~ The children are playing in the snow.
through ~ We struggled through the deep snow back to the chalet.
under ~ The steps were buried under the snow. 
average What's the average snowfall for this region? 
have We had a light snowfall last night. 
deliver sb He took the opportunity to deliver us another snub.
~ for/to His cancellation of the concert was seen as a deliberate snub to the organizers. 
off, out Place the jar in warm water to soak the label off. 
leave sth to I've left the clothes to soak overnight. 
in Soak the clothes in cold water.
into Water dripped off the table and soaked into the carpet.
through The rain had soaked through every layer of his clothing.
with He soaked the cloth with petrol. 
be racked by/with, shake with He was too racked by sobs to reply.
choke back, stifle Choking back a sob, she ran to her father's chair.
break from sb/sth, burst from sb/sth, escape sb/sth A sob escaped her lips.
rise A choked sob rose in his throat.
catch A dry sob caught in her throat.
rack sth, shake sth Deep racking sobs shook his whole body.
story You can't expect me to believe this sob story! 
between ~s ‘I don't want to go!’ she got out between sobs.
through ~s He continued his story through stifled sobs.
with a ~ ‘Why didn't you tell me?’ she said with a sob.
~ from a sob from George
a sob of despair/pain/relief > Note at SOUND 
remain, stay She wanted a drink, but she had to stay sober.
keep sb Only the thought of her kept him sober. 
almost, fairly, more or less, pretty well, reasonably, relatively By this time he felt more or less sober again.
enough At that point she was still sober enough to ask sensible questions. 
be entitled to, claim, receive If you are unemployed you can claim social security. 
contributions All people in work pay social security contributions.
on ~ He's out of work and on social security. 
under ~ They believed that these problems would disappear under socialism. 
throwaway Our throwaway society must be encouraged to recycle.
divided, stratified Years of high unemployment have left society deeply divided.
Western
polite Such language would not be used in polite society. 
fit into Prisoners often have problems fitting into society on their release.
in/within (a) ~ the role of television in modern Western society 
a cross-section of society The clinic deals with a wide cross-section of society
the fabric of society The civil war tore apart the fabric of society.
the higher/top echelons of society Officers were drawn largely from the top echelons of society.
a level/rank/stratum of society Child cruelty exists at all levels of society.
an outcast from/of society She devoted herself to helping the outcasts of society.
the backbone/a bulwark/a pillar of society One of the pillars of society must be that everyone has access to the legal system. He considered himself to be a pillar of society.
your place/rank in society A person's job is one of the factors that determines their place in society.
the rest of society He felt isolated from the rest of society.
a section/sector/segment of society Every section of society must have access to education.
society as a whole The research examines minorities and their relation to society as a whole.
the structure of a society the class structure of British society 
belong to She belongs to the historical society.
in a/the ~ She was active in the Society for Women's Suffrage.
~ of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders > Note at ORGANIZATION 
odd He wore odd socks, one red and one yellow. 
darn, mend > Special page at CLOTHES 
deep, low-slung She sank into the deep sofa.
convertible The convertible sofa means that the apartment can sleep four. 
collapse on/onto, flop (back) on/onto, lower yourself onto, settle (yourself) (down) on, sink down on/onto, sink (back/down) onto, sit (down) on, slump (back) on/onto He slumped back on the sofa in tears.
be sprawled across/on, be stretched out on, lie on, lounge on, recline on, sprawl across/on, stretch out on I spent the evening sprawled on the sofa, watching TV.
get up from, jump up from, pull yourself up from, rise from He got up from the sofa to fetch some drinks. 
on the ~ She was curled up on the sofa. 
a little, slightly His smile softened slightly. 
try The chancellor may try to soften the blow somewhat with a cut in interest rates.
dig, till, turn, work fields of newly turned soil The clayey soils of the region are difficult to work.
in (the) ~ The flowers do well in sandy soil. 
set foot on She first set foot on French soil at a small Channel port. 
on … ~ protests over the siting of nuclear weapons on British soil 
brave, fine, good, great The minister paid tribute to the brave soldiers who had lost their lives.
common, ordinary, private, rank-and-file What was life like for the common soldier?
fellow He was deeply affected by the death of one of his fellow soldiers.
Allied, British, etc.
enlist as He decided to enlist as a soldier.
enlist The number of soldiers enlisting has fallen dramatically.
be stationed, serve soldiers serving in the Germany
open fire (on sb) At least 19 people were killed when soldiers opened fire on a peaceful demonstration.
be, look, seem, sound She usually had a smile on her face, but now she looked solemn.
become, grow His face grew solemn.
very He addressed them all in very solemn tones.
rather Her mood was rather solemn. 
actively She had actively solicited funds for her election campaign. 
for Local companies were solicited for money.
from She solicited support from other teachers. 
become, go If you put it in the freezer, it will go solid. 
enough The ice felt solid enough.
absolutely, rock Support for the plan remained rock solid.
fairly, pretty There is pretty solid evidence to show that the disease is caused by poor hygiene. 
in the ~ of She enjoyed a few moments of peace in the solitude of the garden. 
highly, very It is a highly soluble gas.
in The disulphate was easily soluble in water. 
completely The mystery has not yet been completely solved.
not necessarily Being with peers and friends does not necessarily solve this feeling of loneliness.
adequately, satisfactorily This question has never been satisfactorily solved.
help (to), help sb (to) We were given clues to help us solve the puzzle.
by We hope the difficulty can be solved by getting the two sides together to discuss the issues.
with The problem cannot be solved with spending cuts alone. 
be, look, seem Everyone looked very sombre.
become, grow His eyes grew sombre.
remain The mood in Parliament remained sombre. 
fairly, rather, somewhat She was in a somewhat sombre mood.
suitably The funeral cortege passed, to suitably sombre music. 
country, folk, pop/popular, traditional a Hungarian folk song
bawdy, children's, drinking, love, patriotic, protest, religious After a few drinks, they were all singing bawdy songs at the top of their voices. a protest song written in the sixties
theme, title the theme song from ‘The Godfather’ the title song from the Beatles' album ‘Help!’ 
do, perform, play, sing They performed another two songs as encores. Sing us a song, Susanna!
in (a/the) ~ Important historical events were commemorated in song.
break into, burst into He strummed a couple of chords on the guitar and they all burst into song. 
in ~ He heard voices raised in song. 
highly, very She was a highly sophisticated and elegant woman.
sing She has sung soprano in many major operas. 
voice She has a natural, clear soprano voice.
part The soprano part in this opera is very demanding 
in a ~ She sings in an exceptionally pure soprano. 
feel I felt no sorrow for her.
express He wrote to the dead man's mother expressing his deep sorrow.
share She wanted to share his sorrow.
hide I couldn't hide my sorrow and anger.
bring, cause The war brought sorrow to millions. 
to sb's ~ To his great sorrow he could not remember his mother.
with ~ They accepted the decision with sorrow.
a feeling/pang of sorrow Claudia felt a deep pang of sorrow for her sister.
full of sorrow He looked at Katherine, his eyes full of sorrow.
tears of sorrow Tears of relief were mixed with tears of sorrow.
a time of sorrow This is a time of great sorrow for all the family. 
funny, odd, strange He was friendly in a funny sort of way. 
of The shop sells all sorts of books. 
save Missionaries saw it as their task to save souls.
sell to sell your soul to the Devil 
very The plea touched him to his very soul.
lose In the process of being made into a film, the story seemed to have lost its soul.
bare He bared his soul to her.
search I searched my soul for any malice that could have provoked his words, but found none. 
in your ~ Deep in her soul she knew she had to return to her country. 
body and soul She gave herself to him body and soul.
heart and soul He gave himself heart and soul to the cause. 
with ~ She sang the song with passion and soul. 
living There was no other living soul to be seen. 
a soul in torment The dog was howling like a soul in torment.
not be a soul in sight By midnight, there wasn't a soul in sight. 
big, deafening, loud, powerful We need a big powerful sound from the trumpets in the final passage.
clean, clear, sharp He produces a good clean sound on his flute.
awful, horrible, sickening There was a sickening sound as his head made contact with the concrete.
guitar, piano, etc. She tried to describe what made a good guitar sound.
emit, make, produce, pronounce, transmit, utter What's making that awful creaking sound? Three bones transmit sounds to the inner ear. He didn't utter a single sound throughout the meeting. 
carry, travel Sound carries well over calm water.
come A strange sound came from the box.
bite As a politician he is a master of the 30-second sound bite. 
at the ~ of He turned around at the sound of footsteps behind him.
without a ~ The door opened without a sound.
~ from There was a strange sound from downstairs. 
turn down/up Can you turn the sound up? 
engineer > Note at SOUND 
have We had a cold cucumber soup as a starter.
drink, eat (Eat is the normal verb when the soup is served in a bowl.)
slurp Don't slurp your soup!
ladle (out), serve He ladled out three bowls of soup. 
a bowl/cup/mug of soup, a packet/tin of soup > Special page at FOOD 
external, foreign Do you have any foreign sources of income?
alternative We need to look for alternative sources of energy.
renewable The village obtains all its energy from renewable sources.
be, constitute, prove, provide The census constitutes the principal source of official statistics. These crustaceans provide a valuable food source for some fish.
exploit, tap, use (as) The government hopes to tap new sources of employment in the area of health.
locate We tried to locate the source of the sound. 
at ~ Under the PAYE system, employees' income is taxed at source (= by the employer).
a variety of sources The research was funded from a wide variety of sources. 
diplomatic, government, intelligence, military, official, police Intelligence sources report a build-up of troops just inside the border.
cite, quote Researchers try to quote primary sources wherever possible.
disclose, name, reveal The police refused to reveal the source of their information. 
claim sth, describe sth, disclose sth, indicate sth, report sth, reveal sth, say sth, suggest sth Government sources indicated that a compromise might be reached. One source said: ‘Our blood is up. We are angry at the way we 
according to ~s According to informed sources, a takeover bid is planned for next month.
sources close to sb Sources close to the player claim he won't be entering this year's championship. 
early Sow early for an early crop.
thickly, thinly Sow the seeds quite thinly. 
with We've sown that field with wheat. 
at intervals, equally, evenly, regularly Telephone boxes are spaced at regular intervals along the motorway. Make sure the posts are spaced evenly apart.
apart, out The fruits should be well spaced out so that they are not touching each other. 
deceptively, surprisingly The house benefits from a deceptively spacious kitchen (= that is larger than it seems). 
drain, strain Drain the spaghetti well. 
sauce > Special page at FOOD 
panish noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
emit, produce, send (out), shower, strike The firework showered sparks all over the lawn. His iron-tipped stick struck sparks from the pavement. 
ignite sth, set fire to sth Flying sparks set fire to the dry grass.
a shower of sparks The grinding wheel sent a shower of sparks across the workbench.
little, tiny A tiny spark of rebellion flared within her.
lack His performances lack creative spark.
feel She felt a little spark of anger.
of He had kindled a spark of interest within her. 
shoot Her eyes shot sparks of contempt.
draw His remarks drew sparks from her. 
fly Sparks flew at the meeting. 
feel He felt a spasm of panic sweeping over him.
go into The muscle goes into spasm, producing the symptom of cramp. 
in ~ She could not speak; her throat was in spasm.
~ of He kicked the chair in a spasm of impatience. 
briefly We spoke briefly on the phone.
hardly Ben hardly spoke to me all evening. 
refuse to The president refused to speak to the waiting journalists.
dare (to) No one had ever dared speak to him like that before. 
about, to I need to speak to Joseph about this matter.
with Can I speak with you for a minute? 
be on speaking terms (with sb) We are still on speaking terms after the argument.
not be speaking (to sb) Ed and Dave aren't speaking at the moment. 
clearly You must speak loudly and clearly on the stage.
eloquently, movingly She spoke eloquently about the need for action.
be able/unable to, can/could (hardly) She was so moved she could hardly speak.
begin to, open your mouth to She opened her mouth to speak and found she couldn't.
dare not, not trust yourself to He nodded, not trusting himself to speak.
hear sb I heard him speak at the debating society. 
about, against He spoke out against mismanagement.
for I speak for all my colleagues.
in favour of She spoke in favour of the new tax.
on She speaks on women's issues.
on behalf of I speak on behalf of many thousands of women.
of He speaks very warmly of you.
to He will be speaking to history students about the causes of war. 
fluently, well He speaks German fluently. 
in Would you prefer it if we spoke in French? 
be armed with, carry The tribesmen were armed with spears and shields.
the point of a spear She had a fish impaled on the point of her spear. 
bring in They brought in an outside specialist to install the computer system. 
in She is a specialist in eighteenth-century English painting.
a group/team of specialists, a specialist in the field The book is written by P.H. Reaney, a noted specialist in the field. > Note at DOCTOR> Note at JOB 
narrow His specialization is too narrow to be of interest to more than a handful of students.
economic There has been increased economic specialization throughout the country.
degree The production line involves a high degree of specialization of labour. 
in Her degree is in French, with specialization in seventeenth-century literature. 
an area of specialization The company has gradually focused on its current areas of specialization. 
animal, bird, fish, insect, mammal/mammalian, plant, tree, etc. The area is rich in different plant species.
be found, grow, live, occur Similar species of fish occur in Mongolia.
high The yachts are built to the highest specifications.
contract, job, product, service The manager has drafted job specifications for each of the positions. 
meet The aircraft have to meet the strict specifications laid down by the FAA. 
according) to the/your ~s Each vehicle can be equipped according to your specifications. 
beautiful, fine, good, healthy, magnificent, perfect, prize This is a fine specimen of a walnut tree.
give The motorist may be required to give a urine specimen.
push up She pushed her spectacles up her nose and sighed.
look through/over, peer through/over He peered at the waiter over his spectacles. 
be perched on sth, perch on sth Her wire-framed spectacles were perched on the end of her nose.
glint Her spectacles glinted in the moonlight.
steam up His spectacles steamed up in the hot room. 
line sth Spectators lined the route of the president's walkabout.
visible Beyond the red end of the visible light spectrum is infrared.
the colours of the spectrum Other species can perceive colours of the spectrum that are invisible to us.
complete, full The courses cover the full spectrum of levels.
across the ~ There was consensus across the political spectrum.
at one/the other end of the spectrum, both/opposite ends of the spectrum The two speakers were chosen to represent opposite ends of the spectrum.
a spectrum of opinion The newspaper covers a broad spectrum of opinion. 
mere Whether or not he will get the job is mere speculation.
rife Speculation was rife as to whom the prince might marry.
amid ~ He was dropped from the team amid speculation that he was seriously ill.
~ among There was wild speculation among the students as to the reason for cancelling the lecture.
~ about/as to/on/over There has been increasing speculation over the future of the monarchy. 
be, remain, sit, stand Rachel stood speechless.
leave sb, render sb The news left us all speechless. 
with He was almost speechless with anger. 
amazing, astonishing, breakneck, fast, great, high, incredible, lightning, phenomenal, remarkable, startling, surprising, terrific The new houses have been built with astonishing speed. He drove us to the hospital at breakneck speed.
cruising, flying, operating, reading, running The machinery is regulated to a safe running speed.
burst The Greek runner produced an electrifying burst of speed over the last 50 metres. 
attain, reach The car reaches a speed of 60 miles per hour within five seconds.
build up, gain, gather, increase, pick up The train pulled out of the station, slowly gathering speed.
maintain The boat maintained a steady speed while the sea was calm.
record ‘Mallard’ holds the speed record for a steam locomotive.
at ~ (= fast) The train was travelling at speed when the accident happened. at lightning speed
with ~ Hedgehogs, though small, can move with surprising speed. 
at) full speed He was running at full speed when a tendon snapped in his leg.
full speed ahead The boat can be brought to a stop from full speed ahead within her own length.
the speed of light/sound Concorde crosses the Atlantic at twice the speed of sound.
a turn of speed For a small car it has a good turn of speed. 
bad He's going through a bit of a bad spell at the moment.
barren, lean Viera ended his barren spell with a goal against Parma.
during a … ~ She managed to write a letter during a quiet spell at work.
~ as He had a brief spell as ambassador to Turkey. 
cast, put, weave The witch cast a spell on/over them.
break, remove She uttered the magic word, and the spell was broken. 
under a/the ~ Sleeping Beauty was under a spell when the prince found her.
under sb's ~ The audience was completely under his spell. 
American, English, etc.
in … ~ In American spelling ‘travelled’ only has one ‘l’.
~ for/of The document uses the British spelling for caesium. 
total There has been an increase in total government spending.
defence, education, military, R & D, welfare, etc.
money How much spending money are you taking on holiday?
spree The boys went on a two-day spending spree with the stolen credit cards. 
on More spending on the National Health Service was promised. 
a cut/reduction in spending, an increase/a rise in spending > Special page at BUSINESS 
wider He wanted to spread his ideas to a wider sphere than the school.
academic, cultural, domestic, economic, military, political, social His work is little known outside the academic sphere.
in/within sb's/the ~ The region is within the Russian sphere of influence.
outside sb's/the ~ The matter is outside my sphere of responsibility.
with Their bread is spiced with cinnamon. 
heavily/highly spiced I don't really like highly spiced food.
back (also backspin), top (also topspin) She puts heavy topspin on her serve. 
go into He had to stop the helicopter from going into a spin.
put sb/sth in(to), send sb/sth into (figurative) The president's death sent the stock market into a spin.
give sth Give the washing another spin.
impart, put on How do you put more spin on the ball? 
put on The chairman tried to put a positive spin on the closure of the factory. 
with a ~ The film retells the famous legend with a Marxist spin. 
slide along/down/up (figurative) An icy chill slid up my spine. 
savage Once embedded in the skin, these savage spines are difficult to dislodge. 
deeply, truly, very This is an deeply spiritual piece of music. a truly spiritual experience
almost The colours had an almost spiritual quality. 
make (often figurative) She intended to make a big splash with her wedding.
with a ~ She jumped into the pool with a splash. 
add, lend Window boxes of tulips added a splash of colour to the street. 
absolutely, perfectly, quite, simply, truly The meal was quite splendid!
of A small splinter of metal had lodged in his thumb. 
easily Plastic splits quite easily.
into He split the log into several pieces. 
split (sth) across/down the middle The lid had split down the middle.
split (sth) open The ripe seed pod splits open and scatters the seeds.
split (sth) in half/two Split the coconut in half. 
apart, away, off, up The rock group split up last year. 
from Several factions split from the party.
into On January 1,1993 Czechoslovakia formally split into two independent states.
on/over The party finally split over the issue of gun control. 
be deeply/irrevocably split The party is deeply split on this issue. 
among, between The cost has been split equally between three countries. 
split sth two/three/four ways The profit will be split three ways. 
divide, share The soldiers began to divide the spoils.
for/of I need to find some more sponsors for my bike ride to Brighton. 
beat sth with, eat sth with, fold/stir sth in with, stir sth with, use I stirred my coffee with the sugar spoon. 
keen They are all keen sportsmen.
easily Most of these fossils are too small to be easily spotted.
well spotted ‘There's parking space over the far side.’ ‘Well spotted!’ 
out He was sprawled out on the sofa. 
across, in, on, over She sprawled untidily in an armchair. 
lie/sit sprawled She lay sprawled across the bed.
send sb sprawling The blow sent him sprawling. 
geographical, global The current survey will have a wider geographical spread. 
encourage Such unhygienic conditions encourage the spread of disease.
scoring Uruguay's scoring spree began in the fourth minute. 
go on He's gone on a drinking spree. 
on a ~ She's out on a mad spending spree. 
apart, back, down, forward, out, up He sprang back in alarm. 
be ready to, be waiting to The lion crouched, ready to spring. 
at Therese sprang at him and kissed him on both cheeks.
into, out of He sprang out of the car. 
spring open He worked a knife blade into the drawer and it sprang open.
spring to attention The sentry sprang to attention.
spring to your feet She sprang to her feet and ran to answer the doorbell. 
break into, make The runners broke into a sprint a few hundred yards from the finish. It started raining, so we made a sprint for a cafe. 
relay Jamaica won the gold in the sprint relay.
finish Sato just pipped the Kenyan runner in a sprint finish.
champion Olympic sprint champion Marion Jones
in a ~ This car could comfortably outpace its rivals in a sprint.
~ for The Moroccan came out best in a frantic sprint for the line. 
great A great spurt of blood came out of the wound.
put on She put on a spurt to get to the station in time.
feel He felt a spurt of resentment against his brother. 
with a ~ With one final spurt, he reached the top of the hill.
~ among/between I always have to settle squabbles between the children.
in ~ He was born in squalor next to London's docks. 
cut sth into, divide sth into Cut the sandwiches into neat squares. 
of A square of light shone from the skylight. 
give, let out She gave a little squeal of delight.
with a ~ The car stopped with a squeal of brakes.
the squeal of brakes, a squeal of delight > Note at SOUND 
gently ‘I know,’ she said, squeezing his hand gently. 
out of I squeezed the last bit of toothpaste out of the tube. 
hard, severely High interest rates have squeezed the industry hard. 
make sb The very mention of her singing made her squirm uncomfortably. 
at He squirmed visibly at the thought of his secret being revealed.
in/with He squirmed with embarrassment. 
of He felt a sharp stab of disappointment. 
at I had a stab at answering the question. 
achieve, bring, ensure, give sb, provide (sb with) The policy should bring greater monetary stability to the country.
a period of stability The country was enjoying a period of political stability.
a threat to stability The conflict is becoming a threat to stability in the region. 
away, up The wood was collected up and carefully stacked away. Stack the chairs up over there. 
against The cases were stacked against the wall.
in The paintings were stacked in a corner of the room.
on The plates were neatly stacked on the draining board.
be stacked in piles Boxes were stacked in piles all round the room. 
skeleton We'll be down to a skeleton staff over Christmas.
member There are only four full-time members of staff in the company. 
employ, have The company has a staff of fifty.
appoint, engage, hire, recruit, take on staff appointed to the project I've heard they're recruiting staff at the moment.
dismiss, fire, lay off, make redundant, sack A spokesperson said that the bank expects to make 15,000 staff redundant over the next three years.
pay They pay their staff by cheque.
join He joined the editorial staff in 1999.
appointment The hospital is freezing staff appointments as part of its cutbacks.
on the ~ (of) She has been on the staff of the hospital for most of her working life. 
distinct The process has three distinct stages.
advanced, closing, final, last, late, latter, terminal Her husband was in the advanced stages of cancer.
easy The book guides you through making your own website in easy stages.
committee, design, development/developmental, formative, planning The scheme is still at the planning stage.
knockout, semi-final, etc. Colombia's win sent them through to the knockout stage of the tournament. 
go/move/pass through The water goes through three stages of purification.
enter, reach We've entered a crucial stage in the project. 
at a/the ~ You should read this article at some stage.
by ~s The university was put together by stages.
in ~s We renovated the house in two stages.
the beginning/end of a stage Pupils are tested at the end of each stage of the course.
centre (often figurative) A new actress will take centre stage in next month's production of ‘The Doll's House’.
go on, take (to) He was too nervous to go on stage. I was shaking as I took the stage. She took to the stage when she was at university.
leave She left the stage to tumultuous applause.
set (often figurative) The thrilling semi-finals set the stage for what should be a great game.
direction Shakespeare's famous stage direction: ‘Exit, pursued by a bear.’
set The stage set is the most expensive ever built.
off ~ A trumpet sounded off stage.
on ~ The entire cast is on stage in the final scene. 
blindly She staggered blindly off into the darkness.
from, into, out of, through, towards, under, etc. He was staggering under the weight of the sack. 
stagger to your feet She staggered to her feet and tottered unsteadily across the room. 
absolutely, quite The public response was absolutely staggering.
become, get, grow He had grown staid and dull. 
positively, very The locals were a very staid lot.
with The shirt was heavily stained with blood. 
be badly/heavily/slightly stained, stain sth green, red, etc. The children's fingers were stained purple with blackberry juice. 
lead to sth The spiral staircase led to an upper gallery. 
on the ~ They passed each other on the staircase. 
be, look, smell, taste The room smelled musty and stale.
become, go, turn This bread's going stale. 
with The atmosphere was stale with cigarette smoke. 
have He has a flower stall in Portobello Road market.
man, run Who's going to man the stall at lunchtime? 
at a/the ~ I bought this trout at the market fish stall.
have She didn't the stamina to complete the course.
build (up), increase Aerobic exercise helps to build up stamina. 
reserves of stamina Emma Walton had to call on all her reserves of stamina to win the 10,000 metres.
a test of stamina Final exams at university can be as much a test of stamina as of knowledge. 
Christmas, commemorative 
put on, stick on She stuck a first-class stamp on the letter.
issue, launch The Post Office has launched some new Christmas stamps.
bear, carry His work bears the unmistakable stamp of genius.
leave, put She left her stamp on the school. 
adopt, take up The boxer took up a fighting stance.
in a ~ He lounged in an armchair in a stance of deliberate contempt. 
public Her public stance was much tougher than her private feelings on the subject. 
maintain The wife of the accused has maintained an impartial stance throughout the trial. 
against The president has adopted a hardline stance against abortion.
~ on/towards He has changed his stance on monetary union. 
still Stand still while I take your photo.
on tiptoe She stood on tiptoe to reach the shelf.
awkwardly, meekly, stiffly, uncertainly He stood awkwardly in the doorway, not sure what to say.
around, there Don't just stand there?do something. 
can/can't, could/couldn't The roof was so low I could not stand upright.
can/could barely/hardly He felt so weak he could hardly stand. 
be left standing After the earthquake only a few houses were left standing. 
can/can't, could/couldn't I can't stand that man!
against Two candidates will be standing against her.
as She stood unsuccessfully as a candidate in the local elections.
for He is standing for Oxford East in the parliamentary election. PHRASAL VERBS stand by 
idly, passively Surely the world cannot stand idly by and let this country go through the agony of war yet again? 
straight You'll look taller if you stand up straight. 
acceptable, adequate, decent, proper, reasonable We must ensure proper standards of care for the elderly.
objective Judged by any objective standards, the campaign was a disaster.
professional The work has been done to a professional standard.
quality We have to try and achieve the quality standards set by the project.
qualifying The Olympic qualifying standard has been set at 64.50m.
living The region enjoys the highest living standards in Europe.
have The agency has very high standards.
achieve, meet, reach The factory is struggling to meet national environmental standards. She has reached an acceptable standard of English.
fall short of The hotel service fell short of the usual standard.
apply, enforce, provide It's impossible to apply the same academic standards across the country.
above/below (the) ~ Your work is below standard.
by … standards By modern standards, he isn't a particularly fast runner.
to a … ~ The building work had not been completed to a satisfactory standard.
up to ~ We need to bring our computer system up to standard.
by any standard She's a great violinist by any standard.
a drop/fall in the standard, an increase/a rise in the standard There has been an increase in the standard of service provided.
declining, falling My grandparents are always complaining about falling moral standards.
different We must approach the problem from a different standpoint.
adopt We should try to adopt a more positive standpoint.
from a/the ~ (of) From the standpoint of women, this looks like a policy of discrimination. 
shine, twinkle A bright star shone in the East.
under the ~s We camped out under the stars. 
a canopy of stars They lay down under a canopy of stars.
big There were several big Hollywood stars at the function.
Hollywood, screen, film, movie, soap, TV 
array, galaxy, host Channel 4 has lined up a galaxy of stars for the coming season. 
attraction, turn He was the star turn at the celebrations.
vehicle The film was nothing more than a star vehicle for Tom Hanks. 
fixedly, hard, intently, unblinkingly I could see a man staring at me intently.
absently, blankly, blearily, blindly, dully, sightlessly, uncomprehendingly, unseeingly, vacantly She stared blankly at the brick wall in front of her.
dazedly, disbelievingly, incredulously, open-mouthed, wide-eyed, wildly I stared at him open-mouthed, unable to speak.
bleakly, gloomily, glumly, grimly, helplessly, hopelessly, morosely He stared at me bleakly and said nothing.
coldly, coolly, defiantly, fiercely, moodily, stonily She stared at him stonily as he came in.
(for) a moment For a long moment they just stared at each other.
still He was still staring at himself in the mirror.
across, around/round, back, down, out, (straight) ahead, up She stared back at him. He stared straight ahead and did not move. 
can/could only She could only stare at him with pain in her eyes.
turn to Everyone in the room turned to stare at her.
across, after She stalked off, leaving them all staring after her.
around/round, at, in I stared in horror at his bloody mouth.
into, out of, through, with He just stared at her with disbelief. 
sit/stand staring, stand/stop and stare It was too cold to stand and stare.
stare into space She was just sitting there, staring into space. 
suddenly Her heart suddenly started to race.
just He has just started at school. At that point I just started to hate the man.
off, out We'll start off by doing some warm-up exercises.
(all over) again We'll just have to start all over again. 
be due to, be expected to, be scheduled to Work is due to start this weekend.
be ready to By early evening he was ready to start work.
be about to, be going to A new term was about to start.
had better You'd better start packing if you're to leave early tomorrow morning. 
by Let's start by reviewing what we did last week.
from Start from the beginning and tell me exactly what happened.
on I've finished decorating the bathroom, so now I can start on the bedroom.
with Let's start with this first piece of music. 
get started It's already quite late, so I think we should get started.
from a/the ~ They reached the same conclusion from different starting points.
~ for Your paper provides a useful starting point for the discussion. 
oxygen The pilot had lost consciousness because of oxygen starvation. 
wages The workers lived in poor conditions and were paid starvation wages.
level Millions of people around the world live at or below starvation level. 
acceptable, fit, good, healthy She managed to get the company's finances into a healthy state.
run-down We were shocked at the run-down state of the hospital.
emotional, mental, psychological He's not in a fit enough mental state to drive.
physical The inspectors assess the physical state of schools and equipment.
nervous, trance-like He goes into a trance-like state when he plays the guitar.
natural You can either varnish the wood or leave it in its natural state.
constant, continual, continuous, permanent, perpetual The country is in a perpetual state of anarchy.
in a ~ Jane was in a terrible state after losing her job.
into a ~ Babies can cry themselves into a state of frenzy.
~ of His life seems to be in a constant state of chaos. 
be in a good/bad, etc. state of repair The house was in a poor state of repair when we bought it.
a state of affairs The brothers' refusal to work together had brought about this sad state of affairs.
a state of emergency The government has declared a state of emergency in the flooded regions.
a state of flux The education system is still in a state of flux following the recent reform.
a state of health He's concerned about his mother's state of health.
a state of mind Public speaking can produce a state of mind akin to panic.
a state of shock The driver was just sitting there in a state of shock.
member member states of the European Union
control, ownership The telephone network is still under state control.
property Every citizen could buy shares in privatized state property.
sector, system Teachers in the state sector are asking for a 7% pay 
affairs/matters of state The president's wife is said to have a powerful hand in affairs of state.
head of state Visiting heads of state usually stay in the palace. 
brief, short Saunder's lawyer made a brief statement to the press outside the court.
bald, blunt, flat His bald statement that he'd resigned concealed his anxiety about the situation.
explicit An explicit statement of objectives is vital before the project begins.
sweeping She made one of her sweeping statements about foreigners.
joint The two heads of state issued a joint statement.
political They decided to make a political statement by refusing to vote.
give, make He admitted giving a false statement to the police.
take The police will take a statement from each of you.
in a/the ~ In a statement released today, the Department of Health said …
~ about The clothes you wear are a statement about yourself.
~ to He's trying to withdraw the statement he made to Parliament last week. 
almost, largely, more or less, virtually The population remained more or less static.
fairly, rather, relatively, somewhat The economy is fairly static at the moment. 
be, stand The statue stands in one of the main squares. 
of a statue of the Virgin
~ to the unveiling of a statue to Lord Brown 
defend, keep, maintain, preserve There are many people who wish to maintain the status quo.
a return to the status quo They wanted a return to the status quo before the war. 
book This archaic law remained on the statute books until last year. 
by ~ Local authorities are required by statute to provide care homes for the elderly.
behind, on Alex stayed behind when the others had gone. She failed her exam, and had to stay on at school for another year.
on My hat won't stay on!
late I'm staying late at the office tonight.
indefinitely We can't stay here indefinitely. 
can/can't, could/couldn't I just couldn't stay away.
let sb Won't you let me stay?
for We ended up staying for lunch.
till/until I'm going to stay until tomorrow.
with ‘Stay with me, ’ he pleaded. 
medium, medium-rare, rare, well done I like my steak rare.
chuck, fillet, loin, rump, sirloin, T-bone a lightly-grilled fillet steak
cook, fry, grill, stew > Special page at FOOD 
deceptively The terrain is often deceptively steep (= steeper than you expect). 
have Does the car have power steering? 
fill sth The air was filled with the overpowering stench of decomposing vegetation. 
hastily, smartly He stepped back smartly from the edge.
carefully, gingerly He stepped gingerly over the cat.
aside, away, back, close, down, forward, inside, out, outside Would you like to step inside for a few minutes? 
across, from, in, in front of, into, on, onto, out of, over, past, through, towards Don't step in the puddle. 
keep sth This top fits over the bottle and keeps the teat sterile. 
permanently Male workers were made permanently sterile by this pesticide. 
become, grow Their relationship had grown sterile over the years. 
shop She was an active trade unionist and had been elected a shop steward. 
to Moore was acting as steward to Sir Michael le Fleming. > Note at JOB 
just, simply He simply stuck a pin in at random amongst the names of candidates. 
in, into, on, onto, through He stuck the note through her letter box. PHRASAL VERBS stick to sth 
doggedly, firmly, resolutely, stubbornly She simply made a decision and resolutely stuck to it. 
tend to I tended to stick to tried and tested techniques.
be, feel, lie, look, sit, stand She lay stiff and still beside him.
become, get, go My trousers were getting stiff with mud. My fingers had gone stiff with cold. 
with The clothes were stiff with dust and grease. 
be, feel He felt stiff all over.
become, get, go You'll get stiff if you don't have a hot bath.
leave sb, make sb All that digging made me really stiff. 
all My arm's gone all stiff.
be, seem Their punishment seemed rather stiff. 
be, look, seem, sound She was aware that her words sounded stiff.
a bit, a little, rather, slightly, somewhat His manner seemed rather stiff and impersonal. 
be, hold, keep, lie, sit, stand, stay Hold still a minute while I pin your dress up. For goodness' sake, sit still!
hold sb/sth, keep sb/sth I held the cat still while the vet gave the injection. 
absolutely, quite, stock-He stood stock-still, hardly daring to breathe. 
become, go Suddenly everything went still.
completely It was a completely still, warm evening.
strangely The air was strangely still and silent. 
directly An interest rate increase directly stimulates saving and reduces real expenditure.
get You don't get any intellectual stimulation in this job.
give sb, provide (sb with) The playgroup provides plenty of stimulation for the children.
have The scorpion has a sting that can be deadly.
get You can get a nasty sting from a jellyfish.
feel He felt the sharp sting of the soap in his eyes. 
do He's doing a brief stint at the World Bank in Washington.
during a/the ~ She met her husband during her stint at the London office. 
give sth Give the mixture a good stir. 
about/over There was quite a stir about the book.
~ among/amongst The discovery caused something of a stir among physicists. 
rise in, stand (up) in She stood up in her stirrups to see where the others had gone. 
leather She had to lengthen her stirrup leathers. 
in a/the ~ He put his feet in the stirrups. 
close Bahrain's stock exchange closed up 10.09 points today at 2160.09. 
rally, rise The stock exchange rallied in response to the announcement of massive American investment.
Christmas trinkets you can use to fill a Christmas stocking 
peel off She slowly peeled off one stocking.
ladder She laddered her stocking on a bramble bush. > Special page at CLOTHES 
break, cut, hew (sth from/out of) Convicts were made to break stone for the roads. The stone is cut into blocks ready for building. The walls were hewn from local stone.
block, flag, slab The path's stone flags were worn and broken.
in ~ He is a sculptor who works mainly in stone. 
loose Some loose stones tumbled down the slope behind her.
hurl, throw The boys were caught throwing stones at passing trains. 
set She had the stone set in a ring. 
pit The cars made two pit stops during the race. 
bring/draw sth to, put She brought the car to an abrupt stop. to put a stop to all the arguments
come to, draw to, slow to The truck came to a sudden stop.
have, make We had a lunch stop at Timperley. 
at There will be a stop at Canterbury.
come to a dead/full stop Between twelve and two everything comes to a dead stop. 
miss We were chatting and missed our stop. 
at a/the ~ We dropped the kids off at the bus stop.
between ~s You're not allowed to get off between stops. 
at a/the ~ We had our tickets checked at each stopover.
during a/the ~ During our two-day stopover in Bangkok we saw most of the sights. 
put sth in/into The strawberries are put into cold storage for several months.
life The cheese has a storage life of two months. 
in ~ All their furniture is in storage until they come back from Africa. 
carefully, properly, safely The paintings were carefully stored in crates dependent on their size.
conveniently, easily Butane can be conveniently stored as a liquid in a can.
be in for I think we're in for a storm (= going to have one). 
hit sth, strike sth It was the worst storm to hit London this century.
rage The storm raged all night.
be brewing, be coming A storm had been brewing all day.
blow up, break, burst The storm broke while we were on the mountain.
abate, blow itself out, blow over, pass, subside The storm blew over after a couple of hours.
batter sth, buffet sth, lash sth, ravage sth, sweep sth a boat battered by the storm Winter storms swept the coasts.
last The storm lasted for three days. 
cloud (often figurative) In 1939 the storm clouds gathered over Europe.
damage, losses Insurance companies face hefty payouts for storm damage. 
ride out, weather The government is determined to ride out the political storm sparked by its new immigration policy. 
amid a/the ~ The band toured Ireland amid a storm of controversy.
~ between, ~ of His comments created a storm of protest in the media.
~ over A storm blew up between Britain and America over Venezuela. 
in The luggage was now safely stowed away in the back of the truck. 
find sth I think you'll find it all quite straightforward. 
absolutely, entirely, perfectly, quite Look, it's perfectly straightforward?just multiply everything by five.
by no means, far from, hardly, less than Getting funding for the project was far from straightforward.
deceptively The answer to this question is deceptively straightforward (= more straightforward than it looks). 
about, with He was quite straightforward with us about the difficulties involved. 
forward I strained forward to get a better view. 
against The dogs were straining against the sledge.
at Several men were straining at a rope, trying to move the stalled vehicle.
for Their ears strained for any slight sound. 
strain to hear/see sth We had to strain to hear what was being said. 
seriously, severely The dispute severely strained relations between the two countries. 
separate sth The oil terminal is in the narrow strait that separates the island from the mainland. 
across the ~ He tried to swim across the Straits of Gibraltar.
in the ~ a ship anchored in the Straits of Hormuz
on the ~ The town is on the straits between the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.
through the ~ Many hundreds of vessels pass through the straits each year.
in ~ The business is in dire financial straits. 
become, end up, find yourself, get We ended up stranded in Paris with no money. Some people found themselves stranded in the lifts as the power failed yet again. We got stranded in the city centre after we missed the last bus home.
leave sb Thousands of air travellers were left stranded by the strike. 
to He was a complete stranger to me. She was a stranger to the place 
almost a stranger His years abroad had made him almost a stranger with his family.
a stranger here You're a stranger here, aren't you?
a stranger in/to these parts A stranger to these parts would be confused by some of the local customs. 
adjustable, detachable The bag comes with detachable straps.
attach, clip on, fit He clipped on his safety strap. The camera was fitted with a strap. 
on a/the ~ His binoculars were on a strap round his neck.
~ across, ~ around/round, etc. She had a wide leather strap around her wrist. 
comprehensive strategy towards basic, broad, general, overall regional developmentTheir overall strategy is quite 
a change in strategy The good, but one or two of the details coming year may herald a change could be improved.
dual, two-pronged The of a strategy The money will go government has employed a dual towards the development of new strategy to achieve these two product and sales strategies.
strategy Their single-minded economics-based, pursuit of this controversial market-oriented, etc. a strategy led to their fall from customer-oriented business power.
part of a strategy He strategy
design, develop, devise, draw up, formulate, map out, plan, work out A coherent strategy for getting more people back to work needs to be developed. The council is drawing up a strategy to meet the needs of the homeless.
explore It is certainly a strategy worth exploring.
adopt, decide (on), employ, follow, implement, pursue, use They're pursuing a strategy of massive retaliation.
outline, propose, set out, unveil The document sets out the government's new strategy.
focus The company will now focus its strategy on its core business areas.
work The company's financial strategy is not working.
punnet I bought a punnet of strawberries. 
bed, plant > Special page at FRUIT 
dark There were dark streaks down her cheeks where she had been crying.
of The last streaks of light faded from the sky. 
a streak of lightning A streak of lightning forked across the sky.
a streak of red, white, etc. She had a few streaks of grey in her black hair. 
have Most of the players have a strong competitive streak.
reveal, show She suddenly revealed a mean streak in her character. 
with a ~ Holidays in the Australian outback are for those with an adventurous streak.
~ of There was a streak of insanity in the family. 
be on The team has been on a winning streak since it won against Lazio. 
for Dolphins are perfectly streamlined for movement in the water. 
at full strength The orchestra was at full strength for the Mahler symphony.
be/get back to full strength I'm still not quite back to full strength after my illness.
every ounce of strength She summon
a feat of strength He used to entertain people with his feats of strength.
a pillar/tower of strength He was a tower of strength to his sisters when their father died.
a position of strength They are negotiating from a position of strength.
reserves of strength When she had twins, she discovered reserves of strength that she didn't know she had.
a source of strength Her childhood memories were a great source of strength when her mother was killed.
strength born of desperation/fear/panic, etc. With strength born of pure panic, she threw her attacker to the ground.
strength of character/purpose/will, strength of feeling, the strength of your position, a test/trial of strength Today's vote is being seen as a test of strength for the government. The dispute developed into a trial of strength between management and the union.
with all your strength She threw the rope with all her strength. 
exploit, play to The team may not have the best players, but it plays to its strengths. 
lie in sth Her great strength lies in her flexibility. 
high The material has exceptionally high strength for its weight.
greater, superior His superior physical strength won him the title.
brute He got the door open with brute strength.
extra They are reinforced with steel for extra strength.
have He had just enough strength to reach for the phone.
find, summon up I'm trying to summon up the strength to do some more work.
build up, gain, gather You need to try and build up your strength before the winter. The opinion that the president should stand down has gained considerable strength.
vary in These wines vary in strength between 11° and 15°.
give sb/sth, lend sb/sth Her love and support gave me strength. The metal reinforcement gives it the strength to resist the high winds.
sap The series of steep hills sapped the cyclists' strength.
draw (on), use She was able to draw on her immense inner strength.
put He put all his strength into reorganizing the department.
take It took all his strength to open the box.
test The Moroccan athlete ran a fast lap to test the strength of the other runners.
reduce, undermine Her unwillingness to answer questions undermined the strength of her position. 
decline, ebb (away), fail, falter, wane The country's economic strength is declining. Her strength was ebbing fast, so her children were called to her bedside. 
acute, considerable, extreme, great, high, severe Separation is a time of high emotional stress.
economic, financial The high mortgage payments put them under severe financial stress. 
level Many workers experience a high level of stress in their daily life. 
cause, create A divorce causes children great emotional stress.
be under, experience, have, suffer (from) He's been under a lot of stress lately.
cope with, handle, manage, stand, take He's had to give up his job as leader of the project?he just couldn't take the stress. 
control, management Staff are encouraged to go on stress management courses. 
under ~ He broke under stress and had to leave. 
a source of stress An overcrowded workplace can be a major source of stress.
a symptom of stress Tiredness is one of the most common symptoms of stress. 
lay, place, put I must lay great stress on the need for secrecy. 
~ on There's been a lot of stress on getting drug sellers off the streets. 
carry, have, take Italian words usually have the main stress on the penultimate syllable in the word. The first syllable takes the stress.
mark Mark the primary stress in each word. 
fall, go Where does the stress fall in ‘psychological’? 
on There's a stress on the second syllable. 
equal There is equal stress on all parts of the structure. 
exert, set up The tower exerts an enormous stress on the walls. The movements set up stresses in the earth's crust.
apply, put, subject sth to Stress is applied to the wood to make it bend. Standing all day puts stress on your feet. The buttresses are subjected to constant stress.
calculate Engineers calculated the stresses borne by each of the bridge supports. 
under ~ Some woods warp under stress. 
become, get My job's getting more and more stressful.
find sth I find these meetings rather stressful. 
emotionally It was an emotionally stressful time for him. 
taut/tautly, tight/tightly Make sure that the rope is stretched tight. Stretch the fabric tightly over the frame. 
across, between, over Striped awnings had been stretched across the courtyard. 
lazily, luxuriously He stirred and stretched lazily.
full-length Andrea turned out the light and stretched full-length on the bed.
down, forwards, out, up, upwards She stretched up to reach the top shelf. 
far The wood does not stretch very far.
ahead, away The road stretched ahead. 
seem to The beach seemed to stretch endlessly. 
along, beyond, for The beach stretches for five miles.
from, into, to an area which stretches from London to the north 
back, out The town's history stretches back to before 1500. 
before Endless summer days stretched out before us.
into The talks look set to stretch into a second week. 
fully We can't take on any more work?we're fully stretched as it is. 
to This department is stretched to its limit. 
ahead, away, back, forward, in, off, out, over, past He strode off in search of a taxi. 
across, along, away, down, into, out of, over, past, through, towards, up She strode purposefully towards the door. 
come striding He came striding up the path. 
all-out, general, mass, national, nationwide A general strike brought the country to a standstill.
sympathy The suppression of the strike led to sympathy strikes in other industries.
call (sb out on), organize, stage The union leaders called a strike. He called all the workers out on strike.
threaten More train strikes are threatened.
break (up), crush The army was used to help break the strike.
ban The new government banned strikes. 
spread The strike soon spread to other cities.
paralyse sth The strike paralysed the port. 
action Prison officers are threatening to take strike action.
during a/the ~ There was a continual police presence during the strike.
~ in support of Miners staged a one-day strike in support of the steel workers.
days lost in/through strikes Unofficial action accounted for 40% of the days lost through strikes last year. 
in a/the ~ The house was damaged in an air strike.
~ against/on The aircraft carried out a pre-emptive strike against bases in the north. 
be, look That hat looks very striking. 
quite She was tall and quite striking.
immediately What is immediately striking is how resourceful the children are. 
in The picture was striking in its simplicity. 
thick, wide Cut the meat into thick strips.
landing This aircraft requires a good-sized landing strip. 
in ~s The wallpaper can then be torn off in strips.
run The butterfly is black and white with a blue stripe running down each wing. 
~ across/down, etc. The toad has a distinctive yellow stripe down its back. 
bold, vigorous She caught his likeness with a few bold brush strokes.
with a stroke of the pen With a stroke of the pen our names were removed from the register. 
powerful The Romanian rowers pulled ahead with fast, powerful strokes.
play He played some powerful backhand strokes throughout the game. 
by a, two, etc. ~ (in golf) Woods leads by two strokes. 
long, short He swam back with long slow strokes.
do, swim You can't swim more than four strokes before you reach the other side. 
have, suffer She had a massive stroke and lost her speech. 
leave sb … The stroke left him paralysed down his right side. 
patient, victim > Special page at ILLNESS 
sudden I had a sudden stroke of inspiration. 
at a/one ~ They lost half their fortune at a stroke.
a stroke of (good/bad) luck, a stroke of (good) fortune > Note at STROKE 
five-minute, etc. The shops are only a ten-minute stroll away.
be/go out for, go for, take They took a leisurely stroll along the river bank. 
a stroll around (sth)/away The beach is only a short stroll away. 
make sb All that outdoor work has made him very strong. 
enough Don't try to go back to work before you are physically strong enough.
enough The box looks strong enough. 
keep sth This news helped keep the dollar relatively strong today. 
extremely, immensely, particularly, really, very He exerts an extremely strong influence on his classmates.
enough The party lacks a strong enough local base. 
beautifully, carefully, clearly, neatly, properly, well She had structured her arguments very carefully.
around The teaching is structured around three topics.
into The company is structured into two divisions. 
desperately, hard, manfully, painfully, really, valiantly He struggled desperately to get to the shore. He struggled hard to keep the boat upright.
on She struggled on despite the pain. 
against The small boat struggled against the waves.
along, down, for Shona struggled for breath.
through The family struggled through the next few years.
up They struggled up the hill.
with I'm really struggling with this essay. 
struggle to your feet She struggled to her feet and set off after him. 
badly The team struggled badly last season.
financially I was unemployed and struggling financially. 
fiercely, furiously, violently She struggled furiously but could not get away.
together Ben and Jack struggled together on the grass. 
with He was hit in the mouth as he struggled with the raiders. 
struggle free The attacker's victim managed to struggle free. 
doctoral, MA, etc.
mature He studied metallurgy as a mature student, having spent ten years working in a foundry.
numbers, population Student numbers at the college have increased by 25 per cent.
days She travelled a lot in her student days.
grant, loan She had to take out a student loan to help her through college.
as a ~ She first went to London as a student. 
independent, private This grammar book is suitable both for classroom use and for independent study.
academic The course integrates academic study and practical training.
take up Now that her children are all at school, she's going to take up full-time study again. 
group A bible study group meets every Sunday at the church.
leave The company allows its staff to take paid study leave.
skills The first part of the course is designed to develop students' study skills. 
for full-time study for an MA 
an area/a field of study Students do a foundation year before specializing in their chosen field of study. 2 studies sb's learning activities 
further Many undertake further studies after passing their A levels. 
complete, finish When he has completed his studies, he'll travel round the world.
resume, return to She returned to her studies when her children reached school age. 3 studies subjects 
business, management, religious, women's, etc. She's doing women's studies at Liverpool University. 
lecture in, teach He lectures in management studies. 
new, present, recent The present study reveals an unacceptable level of air pollution in the city centre.
careful, close, comprehensive, detailed, intensive, serious a close study of share prices She devoted herself to a 
esearch studies carried out in Italy confirmed the theory.
field This phenomenon has been observed in both laboratory and field studies.
feasibility The company undertook an extensive feasibility study before adopting the new system.
commission, fund, support the recommendations of a study commissioned by the World Bank
carry out, conduct, do, make, undertake, work on He has made a special study of the way that birds communicate with one another.
aim at/to, be aimed at sth, attempt to, be designed to, set out to The study set out to examine bias in television news coverage.
cover sth The ten-year study covered 13,000 people aged 15-25.
compare sth The study compares the incidence of bone cancer in men and women.
provide sth The study provided valuable insight into the development of the disease.
highlight sth, identify sth The study highlighted three problem areas. 
group The study group was selected from a broad cross section of the population. 
in a/the ~ In a recent study, 40% of schools were found to be understaffed.
an area/a field of study, the results/findings of a study, the subject of a study Shakespeare is the subject of a new study by Anthony Bryan. 
inside, into He hastily stuffed a few clothes into a bag.
with She stuffed her case with presents for the kids. 
be stuffed full of sth Her briefcase was stuffed full of papers. 
to The question of disarmament proved a major stumbling block to agreement. 
appear, be, feel, look, seem, sit, sound, stand Morton stood stunned, unable to believe his ears.
leave sb Leaving them all stunned, she walked out of the bar. 
at They seemed stunned at his outburst.
by She was a bit stunned by the news.
arrange, organize She arranged a publicity stunt to make the public aware of the product.
pull What do you hope to gain by pulling a stunt like that? 
as a ~ They jumped off London Bridge as a publicity stunt. 
carry out, do, perform The actor performed all the stunts himself.
demonstrate, show Her answer showed the most incredible stupidity. 
through (your) ~ Through his own stupidity, he missed an excellent opportunity. 
have, speak with He spoke with a stutter, which got worse when he was angry. 
suitably She was dressed in grey and looked suitably subdued.
strangely, unusually I felt strangely subdued when it was all over. 
cheerful Can we talk about a more cheerful subject?
taboo Work is a taboo subject when we go out for dinner.
closed I don't wish to discuss it any further?the subject is closed.
chosen Each candidate has to speak for three minutes on their chosen subject.
pet Once he gets onto his pet subject there's no stopping him. 
cover, debate, discuss, talk about, touch on We touched briefly on the subject.
deal with I wasn't quite sure how to deal with the delicate subject of money.
examine, have a (fresh) look at, investigate, look into We want to have a fresh look at the difficult subject of social security benefits.
drop Let's drop the subject since we don't seem to be able to agree.
stick to I wish he'd stick to the subject rather than telling us his boring stories.
get off, wander off She was supposed to be speaking about sales figures, but she kept wandering off the subject.
get back to, return to Getting back to the subject of heating, has anyone got any suggestions for improvements?
change Don't change the subject. 
arise, come up The subject of gambling has come up several times recently. 
matter I like the way she writes, although I'm not interested in her subject matter. 
on a/the ~ While we're on the subject of the theatre, has anyone been to see the new show? 
a range of subjects We discussed a wide range of subjects. 
take What subjects are you taking at A level?
offer The department 
area The syllabus is divided into five subject areas. 
in a/the ~ He did well in every subject. 
a choice of subject/subjects His unusual choice of subjects made it harder to find a job.
a range of subjects > Note at SUBJECT 
demand, expect The emperor demanded total submission from his subjects.
beat sb into, bomb sb into, force sb into, starve sb into, stun sb into They bombed the village into submission. 
support, uphold The judge upheld the defendant's submission and quashed his conviction. 
~ to The companies have made a joint submission to the minister. 
to The needs of the individual are completely subordinated to those of the state. 
cable/digital/satellite TV, magazine, phone, telephone
to Subscribers to the magazine can take advantage of this special offer. 
gradually, slowly The storm gradually subsided.
into Her tears subsided into sniffs. 
Spanish, Madrid-based, etc.
owned a 58%-owned subsidiary of Millennium Graphics
operate as The company operates as a wholly-owned subsidiary of a large French company.
company > Note at ORGANIZATION 
hidden, indirect The help that the government gives the industry amounts to an indirect subsidy.
EU, government, public, state
level The level of subsidy given to farmers is to be reduced. 
give sth, grant sth, pay, provide (sth with) The Arts Council granted them a small subsidy.
cut, reduce Export subsidies have been reduced by 20%.
a cut/reduction in subsidies The government cut spending through reductions in state subsidies to industry.
innocuous Even innocuous substances can sometimes register a positive result in a drug test.
produce Some frogs produce very toxic substances in their skin.
take The athletes had taken banned substances to increase their strength. 
real The real substance of the report was in the third part.
added His disappearance has given added substance to the argument that he stole the money. 
have The image of him that the media have presented has no substance.
give sth, lend sth The letters lent substance to the rumours.
in ~ There's no difference in substance between the two points of view.
of ~ Nothing of substance was achieved at the meeting.
without ~ Their allegations were without substance.
~ in There's no substance in the story.
~ to There was little substance to his claims. 
nglish, French, etc. 
with ~s a Japanese film with English subtitles 
have Her dancing has great subtlety.
bring sth, lend sth His understanding of light brings great subtlety to his painting.
appreciate, grasp, understand She was too young to grasp the subtleties of the film. 
with ~ He uses language with great subtlety. 
along a/the ~, in a/the ~, through a/the ~ He ran through the pedestrian subway. 
limited, moderate, modest The campaign to stop drink-driving had only limited success.
international The company's excellent marketing has resulted in enormous international success. 
amount, degree Initially, the venture enjoyed a fair amount of success. 
achieve, enjoy, have, notch up She had little success in getting new customers. He is keen to notch up yet another success.
bring A change of management failed to bring success.
end in, lead to, result in The year-long fight for a pay rise ended in success.
ensure, guarantee We can't guarantee immediate success.
be vital to Your contribution was vital to the success of the concert. 
come Success didn't come overnight?she struggled for years before making any money.
lie (in sth) Much of his success lies in his skill in handling staff.
depend on sth The success or failure of the project depends on how committed the managers are. 
rate The operation has a success rate of over 80%.
story The company has been one of the success stories of the past decade. 
without ~ She tried to persuade them without success.
~ in I've had some success in getting rid of the weeds.
a chance/hope of success What are our chances of success? We're trying to get him to sponsor us, but there's not much hope of success.
confident of success She had worked hard and was confident of success.
have We had one or two outstanding successes.
judge sth The event was judged a success by its organizers.
make She's made a real success of that job. 
wish sb (every) success We are sad to see Hiroko go, and wish her every success in the future. 
quick, rapid We lost three secretaries in quick succession.
whole A whole succession of presidents had tried to resolve the issue without success. 
in ~ There has been a rise in crime for the second year in succession. 
ensure, secure He wanted to have a son to secure the succession. 
in ~ to Betty Munn is the manager in succession to Edna Greenan. 
the line/order of succession He is next in (the) line of succession to the British throne.
to Malnourished children are more likely to succumb to infections. 
for He threatened to sue the company for negligence.
over The water authority was successfully sued over his illness. 
main, worst The worst sufferers of the condition tend to live in highly polluted areas.
fellow The sessions will enable you to discuss problems with fellow asthma sufferers.
from He's been a lifelong sufferer from hay fever. 
consider sth, deem sth, regard sth as, see sth as Do you really regard that explanation as sufficient? 
barely, hardly, scarcely Our budget is scarcely sufficient to pay people, let alone buy any new equipment.
for The salary proved sufficient for his needs. 
tentatively I tentatively suggested that she might be happier working somewhere else.
respectfully, tactfully I would respectfully suggest a different explanation for the company's decline.
helpfully ‘Shall I tell them you're ill?’ Alice suggested helpfully. 
seem reasonable to It seems reasonable to suggest that all life forms on earth share a common origin.
dare (to) How dare you suggest such a thing? 
as She suggested John as chairman.
for Who would you suggest for the job?
to He suggested to the committee that they should delay making a decision. 
can/may I suggest, I (would) suggest I would suggest that you see your doctor about this. 
strongly The evidence suggests quite strongly that the fire was caused by an explosion. 
seem to The evidence seems to suggest that he did steal the money. 
highly (medical), strongly, very The results were highly suggestive of malignancy.
mass Members of the sect committed mass suicide.
electoral, political Raising taxes before an election would be political suicide. 
attempt, bid He slashed his wrists in a failed suicide bid.
pact The couple died together in a suicide pact.
letter, note He died without leaving a suicide note.
admirably, fine, well A camping holiday would suit me fine. You will have to try out the various tennis rackets to find out which one suits you best.
down to the ground (informal), perfectly Country life suits me down to the ground! This arrangement suited me perfectly. 
make sth The exercise-with-answer-key format makes the book suitable for self-study.
consider sth, deem sth These properties are considered especially suitable for older people. 
not entirely, not quite, not really This holiday is not really suitable for wheelchair users.
equally There are many other training courses that would be equally suitable. 
for The walk is suitable for all the family.
put in We're having a new bathroom suite put in. 
considerable, generous, good, handsome, hefty, high, large, not inconsiderable, princely (ironic), significant, substantial, tidy (informal) It seemed an absurdly high sum to pay for a coat. For his first book he received the princely sum of $400. The team has raised substantial sums for local charities.
astronomical, colossal, enormous, exorbitant, huge, magnificent, massive, record, staggering, vast £200 was an astronomical sum of money in 1547. He joined the club two years ago for a record sum.
small, modest, nominal, reasonable, token, trifling The charity pays a nominal sum to lease the premises.
capital, cash, lump My wife would receive a guaranteed lump sum in the event of my death.
borrow, earn, fetch, raise, recover Some of the paintings should fetch a tidy sum at today's auction. You will have to go to court to recover these sums.
award sb, contribute, give sb, grant sb, lend sb, offer sb, pay (sb), repay The judge awarded them an undisclosed six-figure sum in damages.
agree (on) We eventually agreed a sum and I gave him a cheque. 
be due, be payable The landlord has the right to recover any sums payable under this lease
be equal/equivalent to sth The gangsters offered him a sum equivalent to a whole year's earnings.
do, find the answer to I did a quick sum to work out how much it would cost. 
get your sums right/wrong The company got its sums wrong when 
calculate, find, work out Calculate the sum of the following figures. 
of The sum of two and five is seven. 
aptly, best, conveniently, neatly, usefully, well The research has been usefully summarized in an article by Greenwood.
as The results of the survey can be summarized as follows: … 
high Seville is scorching in high summer.
Indian We had an Indian summer that year, very warm until October. (figurative) She seems to be enjoying an Indian summer of popularity. 
term There are two new courses being run in the summer term.
break, holiday, recess, vacation I went home for the summer holidays.
Olympics, sports > Note at SEASON(for more collocates) 
for She was duly summoned for an interview.
from He has been summoned from New York to give evidence at the trial.
to She was summoned back to his office. 
barely, hardly He could hardly summon the strength to stand up.
manage to She managed to summon up a smile. 
high, low The wintry sun was already low in the sky.
dying, setting, sinking, westering, western The distant mountains glowed in the light of the setting sun.
direct, full This plant likes a dryish soil in full sun.
August, February, etc.
Caribbean, Italian, etc. 
blot out, obliterate The clouds darkened, obliterating the sun.
soak up We were lying by the pool, soaking up the afternoon sun.
catch You've caught the sun (= become slightly burnt by the sun). 
come up, climb, rise The sun climbed higher in the sky. 
dip, drop, go down, set, sink The sun sets in the west. It was getting cooler as the sun sank below the horizon.
be out, be up The sun was up now, and strong.
move The sun moved slowly westward.
appear, break through (sth), come out, emerge Just then, a watery sun broke through the clouds.
beat down, blaze down, burn, glare, shine A brilliant sun shone through the trees.
disappear, go in The sun went in and it started to rain.
catch sth, flash on sth, glance on sth, glint off/on sth, play on sth, sparkle (on sth) The sun caught her dazzling copper hair. The sun glinted on the blades.
pour down/in, slant through sth, stream in/through sth The evening sun slanted through the window.
strike sth, touch sth The sun struck the steep blue slates of the roof.
warm sth The sun warmed his face. 
cream, lotion, oil, protection On children, use a cream with a high sun protection factor.
in the ~ Don't sit in the sun too long. The helmets were glinting in the sun. We've booked a holiday in the sun (= in a place that is warm and sunny).
into the ~ We went out into the sun.
out of the ~ We did our best to keep out of the sun.
be perched on sth, perch on sth Her sunglasses were perched on her head. 
behind your ~ She observed the goings-on from behind her mirrored sunglasses. 
fitful It was a cool day with fitful sunshine.
June, July, etc.
autumn, spring, etc. She sat on the wall, enjoying the spring sunshine. 
be bathed in The town was bathed in spring sunshine.
beat down, flood, pour, slant, stream The sunshine came streaming in at the window. 
in (the) ~ The race was run in bright sunshine.
into the ~ She followed us out into the sunshine. 
be, look, sound She looked superb. 
absolutely, quite, simply The cuisine is absolutely superb. 
quite, totally, wholly She gave him a look that made words quite superfluous.
immediate The form has to be signed by your immediate superior.
report sb/sth to She threatened to report the assistant to his superiors. 
car park, checkout, queue, shelf, trolley An increasing amount of organic produce is to be found on supermarket shelves.
carefully, closely, strictly, well The children will be closely supervised at all times.
fully, properly The pool is fully supervised by trained staff.
personally I will supervise the work personally.
appoint sb to An executive officer was appointed to supervise the arrangements. 
under a/the ~ the people working under that supervisor > Note at JOB 
become, get He was gradually getting more supple.
keep sth You must exercise your joints to keep them supple. 
adequately Any room where gas is used must be adequately supplied with air.
ask sb to Each applicant is asked to supply a portfolio of work at interview. 
from The water was supplied from an eight-wheeled tanker.
to They were accused of supplying arms to the rebels.
with He refused to supply the police with information. 
a contract to supply sth, intent to supply (sb/sth) (law) He was charged with possession of drugs with intent to supply others.
fervently, overwhelmingly, strongly The people of this country overwhelmingly support their president. I strongly support the view that education should be available to everyone.
actively The group is actively supported by several Members of Parliament.
loyally He has supported the party loyally for over twenty years.
ably The soloists were ably supported by the University Singers. 
agree to, be pledged to, pledge to, promise to He promised to support me at the meeting.
in Very few countries supported the United States in its action. 
be widely supported These policies were widely supported in the country. 
strongly The evidence strongly supports his claims. 
through Her parents supported her all through college. 
extremely, highly, incredibly, strongly, very, wonderfully strongly supportive of the government's approach All the hospital staff were wonderfully supportive.
entirely, fully, totally, wholly We are totally supportive of this idea.
to They were all extremely supportive to me. 
mere, pure That is mere supposition!
reasonable It is a reasonable supposition that many mothers would welcome the offer of part-time work. 
make, work on Let's work on the supposition that she meant no offence.
be correct in You are correct in your suppositions about the source of his wealth. 
on (a/the) ~ She was charged on the supposition that she had colluded with her husband in the murders.
~ about They are making all sorts of suppositions about our possible reaction.
during/in the ~ of He was injured in the bloody suppression of the uprising. 
add, impose, levy, put A surcharge of 40 francs was added to our bill. A surcharge is levied on late applications.
for There is a surcharge for excess baggage.
~ on There is a 2% surcharge on credit card users. 
in the ~ The children splashed about in the surf. 
initial His initial surge of euphoria was quickly followed by dismay.
fresh, new, renewed She felt a fresh surge of anger when he denied lying.
experience, feel He experienced that familiar surge of excitement. 
sweep (over/through) sb/sth A great surge of emotion swept through him. 
with a ~ He thought of his old teacher with a surge of affection.
last-minute, overnight, recent A last-minute surge in ticket sales saved the show from closure.
storm, tidal The storm surge caused widespread flooding. 
a surge forward Police struggled to control the sudden surge forward by the demonstrators. 
invasive One of his specialities is minimally invasive surgery.
elective, emergency, experimental, exploratory, remedial They discussed whether patients should have to pay for all elective surgery.
have, undergo She had minor surgery on her knee.
perform He has been performing heart surgery for ten years.
after/before/during ~ She felt weak for six months after undergoing major abdominal surgery.
~ to After the accident, she needed extensive plastic surgery to her face. 
dental, doctor's, GP's, veterinary 
do, have, hold I'll do morning surgery, if you like. We only have a morning surgery. He holds surgery from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
attend, go to those attending the doctor's surgery with physical symptoms I'll have to go to the surgery to pick up the prescription. 
in a/the ~ Dr Smith isn't in the surgery today. 
in The second half of the match comfortably surpassed the first in entertainment value. 
initial After the initial surprise I got to like the place.
mock His eyebrows rose in mock surprise. 
element The Egyptian team relied on the element of surprise to defeat their stronger opponents. 
feign He feigned surprise when I went up and said hello.
hide She was quick to hide her surprise.
cause The president's remarks caused surprise and embarrassment. 
in ~ ‘Walk twenty miles!’ repeated the old man in surprise.
to your ~ Much to her surprise she enjoyed the party.
with/without ~ It was with some surprise that I read of his resignation.
~ at She showed no surprise at the news. 
get, have I had a lovely surprise when I saw Mark there.
spring Johnson sprung a surprise by beating the favourite in the first round.
be in for Your mother's in for a bit of a surprise when she gets home.
catch sb by, take sb by The storm took us completely by surprise. 
for It was a complete surprise for me.
~ to His refusal came as no surprise to his boss. 
hardly, not altogether, not at all, not entirely, not in the least, not particularly, not totally, scarcely Her father didn't seem at all surprised.
a bit, faintly, a little, mildly, pretty, quite, rather, slightly, somewhat, vaguely She looked faintly surprised at my remark.
constantly, continually I am constantly surprised by what my fourteen-month-old son understands.
agreeably, pleasantly He was pleasantly surprised to discover that he was no longer afraid. 
at He sounded surprised at this request.
by She appeared genuinely surprised by this gesture of affection. 
demand The allied commander demanded their immediate and unconditional surrender.
force/starve into The villagers were starved into surrender.
accept, take The division took the surrender of a group of some 500 rebels. 
a flag of surrender The rebels hoisted the white flag of surrender.
in (mock) surrender He raised his hands in mock surrender.
for He used the Internet as a surrogate for contact with real people. 
adapt to, be in harmony with, blend into, blend (in) with, fit into/in with The new hotel blends perfectly with the immediate surroundings. 
amid … ~ classic French cuisine served amid elegant surroundings
in … ~ We spent the afternoon relaxing in the beautiful surroundings of my parents' home. 
sample The council undertook a sample survey of primary schools in the county.
attitude, customer, opinion A recent customer survey showed widespread ignorance about the availability of organic food.
carry out, conduct, do, make, undertake The charity did a survey of people's attitudes to the disabled.
cover sth, deal with sth, examine sth The survey covered 74 species.
claim sth, conclude sth, confirm sth, disclose sth, find sth, highlight sth, identify sth, indicate sth, report sth, reveal sth, say sth, show sth, suggest sth A customer satisfaction survey highlighted the need for clearer pricing. 
according to a/the ~ According to the survey, many young adults have experimented with drugs of some kind.
~ into a survey into the state of English in universities
structural, valuation A structural survey of the property revealed serious defects. 
improved The study showed improved survival of patients using the drug.
ensure The campaign will hopefully ensure the survival of the tiger.
improve, prolong Chemotherapy can prolong survival in cancer patients.
threaten The arrival of this South American predator threatened the survival of native species.
be crucial for/to, be essential to, be necessary for, be vital for/to Adaptability is essential to survival in a changing environment. 
kit The expedition members carried flares in their survival kit.
a battle/fight/struggle for survival, be a matter/question of survival For the poorest people, life was merely a matter of survival.
a chance of survival Doctors gave him only a 50% chance of survival.
the instinct for survival He lacked the common instinct for survival.
a threat to the survival of sth The main threat to the survival of these creatures comes from their loss of habitat. 
great Like all great survivors, she has a ruthless streak.
the last, the only, a rare, the sole This grand park is a rare survivor from the eighteenth century.
find, pick up, rescue The navy helped pick up the survivors.
look/search for The emergency services searched all night for crash survivors. 
from a survivor from the Titanic 
render sth The theory is rendered suspect by its reliance on now discredited sources. 
deeply, highly, very Some of the evidence was deeply suspect.
rather I rather suspect they were trying to get rid of me.
all along, always These revelations only prove what I suspected all along. 
have reason to She had no reason to suspect that Sylvia had not been telling the truth. 
be widely suspected It was widely suspected that the cadets had been acting on orders. 
of He was wrongly suspected of the crime. 
keep sb in Don't keep us in suspense?did you get the job or not?
break Don't look at the end of the book yet?you'll break the suspense.
bear She couldn't bear the suspense a moment longer. 
be killing sb (informal) I don't get the results till next week, and the suspense is killing me. 
about They were kept in suspense about their possibility of joining the expedition for several weeks. 
an agony of suspense I suffered agonies of suspense in silence.
strong There is strong suspicion on both sides that information is being withheld.
the slightest, vague I don't think he had the slightest suspicion anything was wrong.
awful, dark, horrible, nagging, nasty, sneaking, terrible, worst I have a nasty suspicion he's organized a surprise party for me. My worst suspicions were realized when I received my redundancy notice.
groundless, unfounded Our suspicions turned out to be groundless.
entertain, harbour, have We had our suspicions as to who did it, but nothing could be proved.
be/come/fall under He fell under suspicion of tax evasion.
arouse, cast, cause, create, fuel, give rise to, invite, raise, sow Parked vehicles that arouse suspicion should be reported to the police. information that casts suspicion on one of the most powerful figures in the party Their suspicions were further fuelled when both men failed to turn up to the appointment. odd behaviour that invites suspicion
confide, share She confided her suspicions to no one but her diary.
confirm, justify A telephone call confirmed my worst suspicions.
allay, dispel She was anxious to allay any suspicion that she had married for money. 
exist The suspicion exists that Harries is stealing money from the company safe.
attach to sb, fall on sb Strong suspicion attached to the victim's boyfriend. 
above/beyond ~ They thought the head teacher was beyond suspicion.
~ against Suspicions against the former prime minister remain. 
the finger of suspicion The finger of suspicion pointed to Gilbert Cash, a close friend of the victim.
grounds for suspicion The police must have reasonable grounds for suspicion before they can get a search warrant.
an object of suspicion Boys were an immediate object of suspicion to her.
under a cloud of suspicion He ended his athletics career under a cloud of suspicion when he refused to take a drug test. 
regard/treat/view sb/sth with They viewed the new scheme with great suspicion. 
faint, slightest Her remarks lacked even the faintest suspicion of humour. 
of His mouth quivered in the suspicion of a smile. 
long The soil was so badly eroded it could no longer sustain crop production.
be difficult to, be hard to, be impossible to This relationship would be very difficult to sustain. 
accidentally She accidentally swallowed a glass bead.
easily Liquid food may be more easily swallowed.
down She swallowed down her breakfast in a hurry. 
swallow sth whole Most snakes swallow their prey whole. 
convulsively, drily, nervously, painfully She swallowed convulsively, determined not to cry.
back He swallowed back the lump in his throat. 
have to She had to swallow hard before she could speak. 
do, make Let's do a straight swap?your guitar for my bike.
deal The football managers agreed on swap deals involving their star players. 
between a spy swap made between East and West Germany
~ with I did a swap with my brother. 
bad, strong That's one of the strongest swear words in Spanish.
mouth, mutter He mouthed a swear word at me through the window.
leave out I left out the swear words when I told the boss what the staff had said about him. 
clammy My shirt stuck to the clammy sweat on my back.
stale The room smelled of stale sweat.
good We worked up a good sweat carrying the boxes outside. 
break into, break out in/into She broke out in a cold sweat when she saw the spider.
be bathed/covered/drenched/soaked in, be beaded/streaming with, be dripping (with), be slippery/wet with, glisten with The workmen were streaming with sweat. His forehead was dripping sweat.
mop, wipe He mopped the sweat from his brow. 
appear, break out His hands trembled and sweat broke out all over his body.
glisten, stand out sweat glistening on her forehead Sweat stood out on his shoulders.
bead sth, drip/pour/run from/into/off sth, run/trickle down sth Sweat beaded her face. Sweat was running down his back.
in a ~ She woke up in a cold sweat. 
high-necked, polo-neck, roll-neck, turtleneck, V-neck
Aran, Fair Isle 
knit > Special page at CLOTHES 
broad, great, long, wide The house overlooks the great sweep of the St Lawrence river.
grand, grandiose He dismissed his assistant with a grandiose sweep of his hand.
comprehensive Her eyes made a comprehensive sweep of the room.
upward The upward sweep of her hair was held in place by a comb.
make, take We made a wide sweep south to the River Dee. 
in one ~ (figurative) Thousands of jobs were lost in one broad sweep.
Atlantic, ocean bobbing up and down like a small boat in a heavy ocean swell 
break, come/roll in, lift sb/sth, surge up The Atlantic swell surged up under them. 
in a/the ~ The trawler rolled wildly in the heavy swell.
on/with the ~ The boat rose and fell with the swell. 
marked There is a marked swelling of the lymph nodes.
across The car veered out of control and swerved across the road.
into A lorry suddenly swerved into her path.
off The vehicle swerved off the road. 
swerve to avoid sb/sth The car swerved sharply to avoid the bus. 
from He took a deep swig from the bottle.
~ of She had a quick swig of water and then set off again. 
strongly, vigorously A water vole swam vigorously upstream.
around, ashore, back, downstream, out, upstream Exhausted, they swam ashore. 
to We swam out to the boat.
towards She swam back towards the shore. 
adverse, negative The Conservatives suffered an adverse swing of 6%.
late a late swing towards the Tories
mood She suffers from severe mood swings. 
need, require The party needs a swing of only 2.5% to win the seat.
represent This represents a swing of 14% towards Labour.
~ to/towards/in favour of signs of a late swing to the Democrats 
at He took a wild swing at the ball. 
go/play on Some kids were playing on the swings. 
take She took a playful swipe at her brother. 
at The article takes a side swipe at the teachers. 
suddenly My mind suddenly switched back to my conversation with Jeremy.
decide to He decided to switch tactics. 
between The remote control allows you to switch easily between TV channels.
(away) from He switched his allegiance from the British to the French.
to, with We asked them if they would switch places with us. 
become, get Her legs had got swollen from standing up all day.
badly, grossly, hideously, horribly, very His ankle is bruised and quite badly swollen. Her face was still horribly swollen.
all Her eyes were all red and swollen from crying.
double-edged, two-edged (both figurative) The potential financial boost is a double-edged sword (= has advantages and disadvantages).
Samurai 
thrust I thrust my sword into his chest.
exam/examination, A level, GCSE, etc.
follow, offer, teach, use The courses do not follow the syllabus of any particular examination board. Several schools in Britain already teach the baccalaureate syllabus.
follow, do, study Students do different syllabuses according to their ability.
cover, get through It was impossible to cover the overloaded syllabus in a year.
depart from There is little time to depart from the syllabus.
fit/plan sth into, integrate sth into/with How can computer skills be integrated into the syllabus?
contain sth, cover sth, include sth Does the syllabus cover modern literature? 
in a/the ~ Let's include that in this year's syllabus.
on a/the ~ Is geometry on the GCSE syllabus?
under a/the ~ This period of history was not examined under the old syllabus.
become The case became symbolic of US racial tension.
regard sth as, see sth as His refusal to accept the honour was seen as highly symbolic. 
deeply, heavily, highly, very This is a gruesome and heavily symbolic tale.
purely The role of monarch is a purely symbolic one.
of These two objects are symbolic of life and death. 
broadly, fairly The plan of the building is broadly symmetrical. 
find sb I found the doctors quite sympathetic. 
deeply, extremely, genuinely, immensely, truly, very a patient and deeply sympathetic man He sounded genuinely sympathetic.
suitably She made suitably sympathetic noises down the phone. 
about My boss is being very sympathetic about my problems.
to They were extremely sympathetic to my plight.
towards I did not feel sympathetic towards them. 
to The government is broadly sympathetic to our ideas. 
be full of, feel, have She seemed to feel some sympathy for the patients.
express, extend, give sb, offer (sb), show (sb) She expressed her deepest sympathy for him. She says I haven't given her enough sympathy. We extend our sympathy to the families of the victims.
demand, want I don't want your sympathy!
arouse, attract, earn, elicit, engage, evoke, excite, gain, get, rouse, win Their plight aroused considerable public sympathy. He didn't get much sympathy from anyone.
go out to sb, lie with sb Our deepest sympathy goes out to his wife and family. My sympathy lies with his wife. 
in ~ with Nurses came out on strike in sympathy with the doctors.
out of ~ She married him more out of sympathy than love.
with ~ Desmond eyed her anguished face with sympathy.
~ for He has a total lack of sympathy for young people.
~ to The government showed sympathy to their cause.
~ towards He acted with some sympathy towards his victim.
~ with She had every sympathy with him. 
a feeling of sympathy, full of sympathy, have every/little sympathy for sb, a lack of sympathy, a pang of sympathy I felt a pang of sympathy for her. 
visual, visible These virus infections display obvious visual symptoms.
display, exhibit, experience, have, present with (medical), report, show, suffer (from) She had all the classic symptoms of the disorder. The patient was admitted presenting with flu-like symptoms.
develop, get Not all carriers of the disease develop symptoms.
aggravate, exacerbate Cigarettes can aggravate the symptoms of a cold.
ignore He had been ignoring the symptoms for years.
persist, recur If symptoms persist, consult your doctor.
in a/the ~ I'm in a lottery syndicate at work. 
make sth His deeds had made his name synonymous with victory.
with Until the late eighteenth century, ‘opera’ was almost synonymous with Italian opera. 
bankrupt The governor referred to a prison system that was bankrupt of compassion.
state The law applies to schools within the state system.
be part of They are all part of the corrupt system we need to change.
organize How is the sytem organized?
criticize, fight, rebel against She spent her years at school fighting the system.
beat, buck You can never beat the system!
blame It's not your fault?blame the system. 
be based on sth, rest on sth Every political system rests on certain fundamentals.
under a/the ~ Under the new system, all children will be monitored by a senior social worker.
install For this month only, installing the system is free. 
break down, fail The air-conditioning system failed. 
a shock to the system Returning to work after a long break can be a terrible shock to the system. 
computer, PC
boot up, reboot Just reboot the system and try again.
run The system runs on this workstation.
crash, fail, go down The entire computer system went down. 
cstasy, paracetamol, saccharin, sleeping, vitamin, etc. Take two paracetamol tablets with water. 
in tablet form The drug is now available in tablet and capsule form. 
commemorative, memorial We had a memorial tablet put up on the church wall. 
consider sth, regard sth as Sex is considered taboo as a topic for discussion. 
strictly The subject of death was strictly taboo in their society. 
to Such work was taboo to women. 
go off on, take, try New research is taking a different tack. The interviewer decided to try another tack.
change, switch She suddenly changed tack, taking him by surprise. 
on a/the ~ I think you're on the wrong tack with that approach. 
sail on We were sailing on starboard tack.
change, swing onto/to The yacht swung to the opposite tack. 
directly, head-on The drugs problem has to be tackled head-on.
with The problem is being tackled with a range of measures. 
hard He can run fast and tackle hard. 
legitimate Some players see injuring their opponent as a legitimate tactic.
avoidance, delaying, diversionary, spoiling, stalling Children are adept at delaying tactics.
negative, time-wasting The coach was criticized for his negative tactics.
decide on, discuss, plan, talk (about), work out She decided on a stalling tactic.
adopt, apply, deploy, employ, try, use the temptation to use underhand tactics They were desperate enough to try shock tactics.
resort to, stoop to I refuse to stoop to such bullying tactics.
change, rethink, switch They would do well to switch tactics.
demand, require Longer races demand different tactics. 
pay off, succeed, work His strong-arm tactics paid off.
flick, swish, thrash, wag, whisk The dog wagged its tail furiously.
dock It used to be fashionable to dock horses' tails. 
twitch, wag, wave The dog ran out with its tail wagging madly. 
section The plane's tail section had broken off.
nose to tail Traffic which used to be nose to tail now flows freely. 
battle The consortium won a fierce takeover battle for the engineering group. 
dreary She was tired of hearing the same dreary tale of drunkenness and violence.
fairy (often figurative) Winning the French Open was a fairy-tale end to her career.
narrate, regale sb with, relate, tell (sb) She regaled us with tales of her wild youth.
be set in … a tale set in 19th-century Moscow
a tale of woe (= about failure, bad luck, etc.), (have) a tale to tell Each of the survivors had a terrible tale to tell.
exceptionally, extraordinarily, extremely, highly, hugely, immensely, incredibly, outstandingly, really, supremely, truly, very an extraordinarily talented designer Some of these young musicians are hugely talented.
openly She talked quite freely about her work.
vaguely He had talked vaguely of going to work abroad.
sensibly Let's talk sensibly about this.
be able to, can/could I can't talk about it just now.
need to, want to I need to talk to you.
be easy to He was so easy to talk to.
hear sb, listen to sb, overhear sb I loved to hear him talk about the old days.
make sb The police questioned him for four hours, trying to make him talk.
let sb Just shut up and let me talk for a minute. 
of (formal) We often talked of the war.
to I'll talk to John this afternoon.
with I've talked with him on the telephone. 
find sth I found office work very tame after army life. 
positively, very living a life that makes Wild West movies look positively tame
a bit, a little, pretty, rather, somewhat To us it was all pretty tame stuff. 
get into He got into a tangle with his budget figures.
sort out, unravel The legal tangle was never really unravelled. 
in a ~ This string's in a tangle. 
in/into a/the ~ Put a little fish food into the tank.
roll Tanks rolled in to end the siege. 
deeply, very His blue eyes glittered in his deeply tanned face.
turn (off/on) Turn the tap clockwise.
run You have to run the tap a long time before the hot water comes. 
drip, run Someone has left the tap running.
on ~ The pub has two sorts of beer on tap (= in a barrel with a tap on it). (figurative) We have this sort of information on tap (= available to be used at any time). 
at There was a little tap at the door.
~ on He gave her a tap on the shoulder. 
magnetic The data is stored on the magnetic tape.
capture sth on, get sth on Police are examining the incident, which was captured on tape.
on ~ I've got the whole concert on tape. 
compilation a compilation tape featuring new Irish bands
bootleg, pirated The court heard that Ellis sold pirated tapes of Hollywood blockbusters. 
make I made another tape to play in the car.
play (back), put on The police will be able to play back the videotape for clues.
mime to The singer was miming to a pre-recorded tape.
erase, wipe Someone had deliberately erased the tapes. 
contain sth, have sth The tape contained damning evidence. What does this tape have on it? 
adhesive, Scotch(R), sticky
double-sided Fit the carpet using double-sided tape. 
seal sth (up) with I sealed up the package with strong adhesive tape. 
measure Use a steel tape measure to measure the dimensions of the room. 
favourite, likely, natural, obvious, perfect, possible, potential, prime, suitable The prime minister is a favourite target of comedians.
easy, sitting, soft, tempting, vulnerable The stationary trucks were sitting targets for the enemy planes.
hit, reach (used of a missile) The bomb reached its intended target ten seconds later.
miss, overshoot The flare overshot its target and set light to a hotel.
destroy The missile is aimed specifically to destroy military targets.
track The radar beam can track a number of targets almost simultaneously. 
off ~ The missile veered way off target and landed in the sea.
on ~ Politically speaking, his jibes were right on target.
put up, set up The archers were setting up their targets.
use sth as The boys used an old tree stump as a target. 
off ~ Patton was just off target with a header.
on ~ His first shot was bang on target.
wide of the ~ The shot went wide of the target. 
ambitious, demanding, difficult, high, tough, unrealistic She has always set herself very high targets.
set Managers must set targets that are realistic.
aim for Pupils should be given a target to aim for.
exceed The company pays bonuses to workers who exceed production targets.
date to meet a target date of May 2002
above (a/the) ~ Sales so far this year are 20% above target.
off ~ These figures are way off target.
on ~ We are still right on target.
over (a/the) ~ Many wage settlements reached were over the original target of 4%.
towards (a/the) ~ We are working towards a target of twenty cars a week.
preferential, protective, punitive British industry was sheltered from foreign competition by protective tariffs.
fix, set The agreement fixed tariffs for foreign goods coming into Japan at 5%.
impose, introduce, levy The US could impose punitive tariffs of up to 100% on some countries' exports.
on They set a tariff of 36% on British wool cloth. 
look like That dress makes her look like a tart.
call sb He had called her a cheap little tart. 
awesome, challenging, daunting, enormous, formidable, great, Herculean, huge, mammoth, massive, monumental
basic, easy, simple, small Translating the letter was no easy task.
central, fundamental, important, main, major, primary, principal The primary task of the chair is to ensure the meeting runs smoothly.
take on, take upon yourself, undertake Nobody was keen to take on such a thankless task.
approach, get to grips with, tackle How do you tackle a task like that?
carry out, do, fulfil, get on with, perform I left her to get on with the task of correcting the errors.
allocate, assign (sb), delegate, entrust sb with, give sb, set sb She failed to complete the task that she had been set.
be charged with, be faced with, have She was charged with the important task of telling the children.
be engaged in I was engaged in the delicate task of clipping the dog's claws.
be suited/unsuited to His thick fingers were not well suited to the task. 
require sth The task requires a variety of skills and experience.
fall to sb The unenviable task of telling my parents fell to the head teacher.
confront sb, face sb The team have no illusions about the size of the task confronting them. 
the task ahead We need to think realistically about the task ahead.
the task in hand We should stop chatting and get back to the task in hand. 
strongly The water tasted strongly of chemicals.
faintly, slightly The fish tasted faintly of garlic. 
like The fruit tasted rather like mango.
lie in (figurative) Her marriage now lay in tatters.
hang in Everywhere wallpaper hung in tatters.
in ~ Her clothes were in tatters. (figurative) With their plans now in tatters, they gave up. 
endure, face, suffer He had to endure the racist taunts of the crowd.
sting (sb into) Their taunts stung him into his best performance for the team yet. 
become, go Her body went as taut as a bowstring.
remain, stay Exercise helps your muscles to stay taut.
pull sth, stretch sth His skin was stretched taut over his cheekbones.
hold sth, keep sth Try to keep the lead taut, as it will help your puppy to learn. 
heavily Many self-employed people are heavily taxed. goods which are most heavily taxed
according to Drinks would be taxed according to their alcoholic strength.
at Many goods were taxed at 17.5%.
on You will be taxed on all your income. 
increase, put up, raise If the government raises direct taxation, it will lose votes.
be exempt from Any profits made are totally exempt from taxation. 
after/before ~ The loss before taxation was $2.7 million.
from/out of ~ The hospital was funded from taxation.
a form of taxation The poll tax was a very unpopular form of taxation.
for taxation purposes They were treated as a married couple for taxation purposes. 
intellectually, physically There was nothing intellectually taxing about the course. 
be qualified to I am not qualified to teach this subject.
to She teaches English to Polish students. 
English, language, music, etc. 
get/go into He's going to go into teaching. 
aid, material, resource She used puppets as teaching aids.
aim, objective, point Write each teaching point on the whiteboard.
experience, qualification Applicants must hold a recognized teaching qualification.
career Mr Murphy retired at the end of a disciples who passed on Jesus's teaching
in the ~ regarded as the source of goodness in the teachings of Confucius
~ about/on the Church's teaching on forgiveness 30-year teaching career.
practice You have to do six weeks teaching practice as part of the course.
staff, profession They have left the teaching profession, demoralized and undervalued.
commitments, duties, load, responsibilities, role Lecturers who have heavy teaching loads.
environment, situation a teaching environment where English is not the first language
programme, session, term, year Work experience is integrated into the teaching programme. The teaching year runs from October to May.
time Critics say that these tests waste teaching time.
in ~ I've been in teaching for ten years. 
Buddhist, Christian, 
follow He followed the teachings of the Koran on this subject.
emphasize, encourage The company says the aim is to encourage teamwork. 
in This sheet has a tear in it. 
be, feel, look, seem, sound She sounded angry and tearful.
become, get He suddenly became very tearful.
leave sb Defeat left her tearful, pale and drained. 
almost I felt quite emotional?almost tearful.
become, get The conversation was getting a bit technical for me, so I left them to it. 
extremely, highly, very A lot of the discussions were highly technical.
purely This is a purely technical problem.
lighting, sound He works as a sound technician in a recording studio. 
train a need to train technicians in computer aided engineering > Note at JOB 
have We now have the technologies to transplant limbs.
invest in The company is investing heavily in new technologies. 
develop Telecommunications technology is developing fast.
allow sth, enable sth This technology enables computers to read handwriting. 
strictly I'm strictly teetotal. 
astronomical, optical, radio, space images from the Hubble space telescope 
set up She set up her telescope on the balcony.
the wrong end of a telescope He felt as if he were seeing things through the wrong end of a telescope. 
live Millions watched the events on live television.
watch The children watched television for most of the evening. 
broadcast sth, screen sth The state television screened pictures of the trial. 
appearance She recalled her first television appearance forty years ago.
coverage, exposure The Olympics receive extensive television coverage.
in ~ She works in television.
in front of the ~ He spends hours in front of the television every night.
on ~ We were watching the news on television. 
display, fit, flash, outburst He broke the chair in a fit of violent temper. 
have He has a nasty temper.
control, keep I only just managed to keep my temper with him.
fly into, lose She loses her temper at the drop of a hat (= without good reason). 
flare, rise Tempers flared as the traffic jam became worse.
in a ~ She stormed out of the room in a temper. 
keep you temper in check/under control He had to learn to keep his temper under control before he could become a teacher. 
bad, filthy, foul, ill, terrible Peter's comments were responsible for her ill temper.
frayed Frayed tempers at the end of the match led to three players being se
recover, regain She regained her good temper after a chat. 
in a ~ He stormed out of the room in a temper. 
not be in the best of tempers I wasn't in the best of tempers when I arrived at the meeting. 
highly, very Actors have the reputation of being highly temperamental.
great the great temples of Egypt
Buddhist, Hindu, etc.
in a/the ~ They went to pray in the temple. 
at sb's/the ~ s He's greying at the temples.
in sb's ~ s There was a throbbing in her temples. 
be The arrangement's only temporary. 
feel, have I had the constant temptation to look out of the window.
in/out of temptation's way, place/put temptation in sb's way Keep your valuables locked away so as not to put temptation in the way of thieves. 
occupy sth The property is currently occupied by a life tenant. 
greater, growing, increasing There's a growing tendency for women to marry later.
alarming, dangerous, unfortunate, worrying The later model has an unfortunate tendency to collapse after a few weeks' use.
centrifugal The civil war reinforced the centrifugal tendencies at work within the economy.
artistic, criminal, etc. He displayed artistic tendencies at an early age.
~ for There is a tendency for farm sizes to increase.
~ on the part of The tendency on the part of the children is to blame their parents for everything.
~ towards Industry showed a tendency towards increasingly centralized administration. 
invite, put sth out to, seek The government invited tenders for a project to computerize the social security system. The laundry service was put out to competitive tender.
go out to The building of the new school will go out to tender.
by ~ The property is to be sold by tender. 
Achilles 
competitive Williams' return to competitive tennis after injury
circuit, scene She is a popular figure on the international tennis circuit.
career > Special page at SPORT 
become, get, grow The situation grew increasingly tense.
a bit, a little, rather I was feeling a bit tense and restless. 
about There's no point in getting tense about the situation. 
emotional, muscle/muscular, nervous, pre-menstrual, sexual He suffers from nervous tension. 
feel, suffer from I feel some tension in my shoulders.
sense As soon as he entered, he sensed a tension in the air.
in The hot bath eased the tension in his body. 
a release of tension Laughter can be a great release of tension.
a sign of tension Horses are very sensitive to signs of tension in humans. 
considerable, great, high More police have been sent to areas of high political tension.
defuse, ease, reduce She often used humour to defuse tension in meetings.
among The tension among the audience was palpable.
~ in/within The redundancies caused greater tensions within the company.
~ over There has been increased tension over the border incident.
~ with renewed tension with France 
a source of tension Money was always a source of tension between her parents. 
adjust This old racket needs its string tension adjusted.
in ~ The metal is weak in tension.
under ~ Stay clear of cables which are under tension.
~ on The sudden tension on the line told me I had hooked a fish. 
have She had a long tenure of office. 
during sb's ~ He achieved a lot during his short tenure. 
security of tenure The tenants have security of tenure. 
grant sb She has been granted tenure at Leeds University. 
variously This material is variously termed ash, clinker, cinders or slag.
as His condition would be more accurately termed as ‘chronic fatigue’. 
abruptly, prematurely His contract was abruptly terminated.
the right to terminate sth Either party has the right to terminate the agreement. 
use The article uses rather specialized musical terminology.
in … ~ The outer walls, in building terminology, are ‘double skin’. 
across/over ~ It took us the whole day to trek across the rocky terrain. 
at She was absolutely terrified at the thought of jumping off the bridge.
of He's terrified of spiders. 
be filled with, feel, have, shake/tremble with He was filled with absolute terror at the sight. the sheer terror she felt when she saw him He had a real terror of darkness.
bring, inspire, spread The explosion brought terror to hundreds of local residents. He inspired terror in everyone he met.
live in She lived in terror of her father.
flee in The shots sent the crowd fleeing in terror. 
in ~ He was found hiding in terror.
out of ~ He cried out, out of pure terror.
with ~ His face was white with terror. 
strike terror into (the heart of) sb Its fearsome appearance struck terror into their hearts. 
resort to, use The group has resorted to terror to try to get what it wants.
a campaign of terror The bombing formed part of a nationwide campaign of terror.
a reign of terror The dictator's ten-year reign of terror left over 100,000 dead. 
international The bomb attacks have been attributed to a group of international terrorists.
target Aircraft remain likely terrorist targets.
adequately, properly The product had not been adequately tested before being put on the market.
regularly, routinely You should test your brakes regularly.
successfully The exercise successfully tested the procedures for dealing with a serious oil spillage.
decide to We decided to test the theory experimentally.
be difficult to It is difficult to test a potential cure when a disease is ill-defined. 
for Squeeze the fruit to test for ripeness.
on We only sell products that have not been tested on animals. 
have sth tested I'm having my eyes tested this week.
test negative/positive Two of the athletes tested positive for illegal drugs.
test sth to the limit The training tested his body to the very limit.
seriously, severely, sorely Neither goalkeeper was seriously tested in a rather poor match. There were times when my temper was sorely tested. 
call sb to, force sb to The president's former aides were called to testify at his trial. 
against She refused to testify against her brother.
before She was unwilling to testify before Congress.
for a Mafia member who was prepared to testify for the authorities
to A senior officer testified to the existence of police hit squads. A large number of witnesses testified to the tribunal. 
complete, full The newspaper printed the full text of the interview.
main The illustrations are printed separately from the main text.
accompanying The catalogue consists of colour reproductions of the paintings with accompanying text.
block, body, chunk, line, page, piece, portion Hand symbols in the main body of the text cross-refer the reader to the appendices. Use the mouse to move chunks of text from place to place. 
stray from She strayed from the text in a few places to illustrate some of her more interesting points. 
file The program allows you to import text files from other word processors.
editor one of the best HTML text editors available
message, messaging The text message just said ‘Hope 2CU@the party’. > Special page at COMPUTER 
recommended, set ‘Antony and Cleopatra’ was one of our set texts for A level.
prepared He stood up and began reading from a prepared text.
academic, dramatic, legal, literary, poetic, sacred, scientific, etc. We're studying dramatic texts by sixteenth-century playwrights.
in a/the ~ We discussed the use of metaphor in the text.
~ about/on a poetic text about growing up in rural England 
in ~s She has a job in textiles. 
give, say He didn't even say thank you. We said our thank yous and goodbyes to the hosts and went to catch a cab.
for She got a special thank you for all her hard work.
just I'm just thankful that my mother never lived to see this. 
for We were thankful for the chance to rest. 
spring, summer The arctic shore remains frozen until the summer thaw. 
during a/the ~ The river often floods during the thaw. 
crowded, packed The theatre was packed for the opening night.
puppet The pier has a unique little puppet theatre. 
go to, visit I haven't been to the theatre for ages. 
at a/the ~ We were at the theatre last night.
in a/the ~ There's a bar in the theatre. 
good, great He writes the sort of dialogue that makes great theatre.
fringe, provincial, repertory There was some good fringe theatre at the festival.
street We saw some good street theatre while we were in Paris.
political (often figurative) The Chancellor's speech was an absorbing piece of political theatre. 
study He is studying Greek theatre. 
go into He wants to go into the theatre when he finishes university. 
take to He's already been taken to theatre for the operation. 
in (the) ~ She was in the operating theatre for two hours. 
musical The film's haunting musical theme stayed in my head for days. 
develop, discuss, examine, explore His later novels develop the theme of alienation.
warm to ‘Our work’, he continued, warming to his theme, ‘will be a milestone in scientific history.’ 
emerge Several familiar themes emerged from the discussion.
run through sth The same themes run through all her novels. 
on the ~ of He gave a talk on the theme of teenage unemployment. 
variations on a theme Most of the essays appear to be variations on a few central themes. 
purely This research is purely theoretical.
beauty, occupational, sex, speech > Note at DOCTOR> Note at JOB 
meat, sugar Check that the roast is cooked right through, using a meat thermometer. 
fairly, quite, rather, relatively Use fairly thick wads of newspaper.
become, get The paint's got too thick. I'll have to thin it down. 
become, grow The air had grown thick and smoky. 
with The air was thick with dust. (figurative) The atmosphere was thick with tension. 
basic, essential I need to buy a few basic things like bread and milk. 
make He makes things out of wood. 
breakfast, lunch, etc. He hadn't washed up the dinner things yet. 
get together, pack Come on kids, get your things together?we're going.
put on, take off Hang on a second?I'll just take off my painting things (= clothes).
clear away/up, put away, tidy away/up Clear your painting things (= materials) away. 
hear, know, notice, see I can't see a thing without my glasses.
miss I'm going to arrive early, because I don't want to miss a thing.
do She's tricked you, and you can't do a thing about it.
eat I haven't eaten a thing all day.
say Nobody said a thing when he appeared with a wig on.
mean Fame and fortune don't mean a thing if you don't have happiness. 
good, great, positive It's a good thing you remembered to turn off the gas! The best thing would be to apologize straight away. If she works hard she's capable of great things. Try to look on your rejection as a positive thing.
bad, negative Too much studying can be a bad thing. It's no bad thing to express your anger.
appalling, awful, dreadful, horrible, terrible That was a horrible thing to say to her.
amazing, curious, exciting, extraordinary, funny, interesting, remarkable, startling, strange, striking, surprising, weird The amazing thing is, he wouldn't accept any money!
foolish, silly, stupid I admit it was a foolish thing to do.
loads, lots, plenty I've got loads of things to do today. 
do He has a funny way of doing things. It's impossible to get things done when you're looking after a baby.
make up, say Who's been saying things about me?
be hearing/imagining/seeing There's nobody at the door?you must have been imagining things! 
go on, happen, occur There are some weird things going on in that house. A funny thing happened to me this morning … 
about The best thing about Alan is he's always honest. 
among/amongst other things Amongst other things, I have to deal with mail and keep the accounts.
have better things to do I've got better things to do than stand here chatting all day!
kind/sort of thing They go canoeing, climbing, that sort of thing.
know/learn/teach sb a thing or two Jack knows a thing or two about kids?he's got five.
no such thing There's no such thing as ghosts (= they don't exist).
such a thing/a thing like that People defraud their companies every day, but Mike would never do such a thing!
a thing of the past Books may one day become a thing of the past. 
think over/through She's taken a few days off to think things over.
look at, see Try to look at things from my point of view.
discuss, talk over, talk through We arranged to meet and talk things over.
accept You should suggest changes, rather than accept things as they are.
arrange, deal with, handle, look after, run, sort out Who's going to look after things while you're away? I want to get things sorted out before I go away.
patch up They patched things up a week after their quarrel.
stand As things stand at present, he seems certain to win.
be going He asked me how things were going.
go (according) to plan, go well, work (out) I just don't know if things are going to work out.
get better, improve, look up We were in trouble but now things are looking up.
look bright/good/promising/rosy There was a week to go to the deadline and things were looking good.
look bleak/grim Things looked bleak for the future of the factory.
turn out I'm sure things will turn out OK.
come to a head Things came to a head when money was found to be missing from the account.
get to sb Try not to let things get to you. 
all/other things being equal All other things being equal, the bigger fighter should win.
all things considered All things considered, I think we've done a good job.
get/keep things going/moving They hired temporary staff to keep things going over the summer.
get/put things straight I marched into his office to get a few things straight.
have/keep things in hand/under control He offered to help, but she assured him she had things in hand.
have things on your mind We chatted about school, but I could tell she had other things on her mind.
let things slide/slip She'd started the term studying hard, but now was beginning to let things slip.
let things take their course/happen Don't worry about it?just let things take their course.
make things better, easier, difficult, worse, etc. Her apology only served to make things worse.
put things right He apologized, and asked for a chance to put things right.
things to come The pay cut was just a taste of things to come. 
proper, right He did the right thing and went back to his wife. I did all the right things but I couldn't get the engine to start.
wrong She always manages to say the wrong thing.
logical, obvious, prudent, sensible Calling a doctor seemed the logical thing to do.
decent, done, honourable He did the decent thing and resigned. It's not the done thing to ask someone how much they earn.
very Iced tea?the very thing! 
just the thing, not quite the thing It wouldn't be quite the thing to turn up in running gear. 
little, old The baby's a pretty little thing.
poor You must be starving, you poor thing! 
personally I personally think it's all been a lot of fuss over nothing.
honestly Did you honestly think I would agree to that?
never I never thought you would carry out your threat. 
be inclined to I'm inclined to think we've been a little harsh on her. 
about I still don't know what he really thinks about it.
of What did you think of the film? 
of I suddenly thought of a way I could help. 
carefully, deeply, (long and) hard She thought long and hard before accepting his offer.
rationally He seemed to have lost the ability to think rationally.
frantically What can I do now? he thought frantically.
dread to, hate to, shudder to, tremble to I hate to think what would have happened if we hadn't arrived. 
about Think about what you are going to do next.
of I often think of Jane. 
deep, hard, serious This topic requires a lot of deep thinking.
good Yes, we'll phone them instead?that's good thinking (= a good idea).
forward The school would have made better use of the money with a little forward thinking.
wishful His claims to be a millionaire are just wishful thinking. 
do We have some hard thinking to do before we agree to the plan.
apply The book shows you how to apply critical thinking to your studies. 
behind It was difficult to see what the thinking was behind their eventual decision. 
Labour, Republican, etc.
economic, educational, historical, political, scientific, etc. Traditional educational thinking placed importance on learning by rote.
change They are unlikely to have changed their thinking so soon.
dominate His writings on motorized warfare dominated strategic thinking in the 1930s. 
~ about/on What is the current Conservative thinking on social security? 
a shift in sb's thinking There's been a shift in government thinking on genetically-modified food.
to sb's way of thinking (= in sb's opinion) To my way of thinking, it would just be a massive waste of money. 
suffer from Many of the refugees were suffering badly from thirst.
work up After walking five miles, they had worked up a great thirst. 
great, unquenchable He has an unquenchable thirst for knowledge. 
soundly That boy deserves to be soundly thrashed! 
with He thrashed the poor servant with his stick. 
about, around The cow fell on its side and thrashed about wildly. 
soundly The visiting side were soundly thrashed. 
catch, pull You've pulled a thread in your jumper. 
hanging by a thread (often figurative) The player's career is hanging by a thread after this latest injury to his knee. 
loose Apart from one or two loose threads, the police now had the complete picture of what happened. 
follow, trace I found it hard to follow the main thread of his argument.
lose The speaker lost his thread halfway through the talk.
keep She struggled against all the interruptions to keep the thread of her argument.
draw together, pick up, pull together, weave The author eventually picks up the various threads of the plot and weaves them into a masterly conclusion. 
run through sth A continuous thread runs through all the versions of the legend.
emerge On studying the different historians' accounts, common threads emerge.
unravel As the film progresses, the threads of the plot slowly begin to unravel. 
dire, terrible Despite dire threats of violence from extremist groups, the protest passed off peacefully.
empty, idle The kids took no notice of the teacher's idle threats.
implied, veiled The company's pay offer was accompanied by thinly-veiled threats of redundancies if it was rejected.
carry out It's unwise to make threats that you cannot carry out.
lift, withdraw Teachers have lifted their threat of strike action.
give in to The government refused to give in to the hijackers' threats. 
against The accused made death threats against a notable politician. 
renewed The national park is under renewed threat from road-building schemes.
direct, immediate, imminent The opposition presents no immediate threat to the government.
external The government was faced with internal rebellion as well as external threats.
consider sth (as), perceive sth as, regard sth as, see sth as, view sth as Translators do not yet perceive computers as a threat to their livelihood.
under ~ Many wild plants are under threat of extinction.
~ to The junta reacted violently to the perceived threat to its authority. 
vicarious He gets vicarious thrills from watching people bungee jumping. 
for a/the ~ He used to steal from shops just for the thrill of it.
~ from/out of He used to get cheap thrills out of frightening the girl next door.
~ of She felt a thrill of excitement as the mountains came into view. 
publish, write She had always wanted to write a spy thriller.
~ by a new thriller by this American writer 
by the ~ She seized her attacker by the throat. 
clear She cleared her throat, then began to speak. 
close (up), constrict, seize up, tighten His throat constricted with fear when he saw the knife.
down the/your ~ She felt the cold water trickle down her throat. 
the back of your throat The medicine left a sour taste in the back of my throat.
a lump in your throat He felt a lump in his throat, and tears forming in his eyes. 
angrily The vein at his temple throbbed angrily.
with Her head throbbed with pain. 
among/through the ~ He made his way slowly through the throng.
in the ~ She was lost in the throng.
into the ~ He disappeared into the throng. 
knife The realization that she was gone was like a knife thrust.
make The Third Army made an aggressive thrust towards the front line. 
broad, central, general, main, major She explained the broad thrust of the party's policies.
dramatic, intellectual, narrative, political The dramatic thrust of the film centres around the conflict between the brothers. 
direct He's going to direct the main thrust of his work towards reforming welfare policy. 
give She felt her heart give an extra thud.
with a ~ He hit the floor with a sickening thud. 
gang He was beaten up by a gang of thugs. 
give sb/sth She gave the television a good thump, and the picture came back.
with a ~ The sack of wheat hit the ground with a loud thump. 
loud The thunder was getting louder and louder.
dull The gunfire rumbled like dull thunder.
boom, break, burst, crash, explode, roar Thunder boomed in the sky overhead.
rattle sth, shake sth The windows were shaken by a tremendous crash of thunder. 
hursday noun > Note at DAY 
away The clock ticked relentlessly away on the mantelpiece. 
simply To take advantage of this extra bonus offer, simply tick the box on your order form.
off She mentally ticked off the names of the people she had already spoken to. PHRASAL VERBS tick along/over 
nicely The business is ticking over nicely at the moment.
keep things ticking over Morrison had kept things ticking over in my absence. 
feel, get, have He felt a tickle on the back of his neck. 
stay Why does nothing ever stay tidy around here?
keep sth I hope you're going to keep your room tidy. 
immaculately, scrupulously It was a neatly furnished and immaculately tidy room.
fairly, quite The sitting room is fairly tidy. 
firmly, securely, tightly Did you tie the balloons on tightly?
loosely He wore plimsolls, loosely tied with bits of string.
neatly Tie the cords neatly.
around/round He tied his dressing gown firmly around him.
onto I tied the bundle onto the end of the string.
to She tied the rope securely to a tree.
with Katie tied her hair back with a ribbon. 
tie sb hand and foot The prisoners were tied hand and foot. 
closely, intimately Their company's future is closely tied to our own.
in, together, up Production and consumption are inextricably tied together. 
in with The concert will tie in with the festival of dance taking place the same weekend.
to You can't stay tied to her forever.
up with Her behaviour is tied up with her feelings of guilt. 
become, get, go Those jeans have got too tight and I can't wear them any more. The rope suddenly went tight.
hold (on) ‘Hold tight!’ She increased her grip.
clamp sth, clench sth, close sth, draw sth, pull sth, shut sth, stretch sth, tie sth His jaw was clenched tight. Every muscle in her face was drawn tight. Shut your eyes tight. The cloth was stretched tight over the frame.
clutch sth, grip sth, hold sth, keep sth He held his children tight. Keep the rope tight. 
enough You didn't tie it tight enough. 
get I think we'd better leave?time's getting very tight. 
remain Security at the airport remains tight. 
enough Are the controls tight enough? 
a ladder in your tights > Special page at CLOTHES 
at/behind/on the ~ The supermarket didn't have enough people working on the tills.
in/into a/the ~ Put the money straight into the till.
from/out of a/the ~ He gave her £10 from the till. 
sharply The ground tilted sharply downwards.
away from Tilt the mirror away from you.
towards Her face was tilted towards the sky. 
tilted to one side She thought for a minute, her head tilted to one side. 
elapse, go by, pass As time went by we saw less and less of each other. The changing seasons mark the passing of time.
fly How time flies!
drag Time drags in this job.
heal sth Time heals all wounds. 
in ~ The world exists in time and space.
over ~ Perceptions change over time.
the mists of time The origins of this custom are lost in the mists of time. 
good, perfect My watch keeps good time.
local The attacks were launched at 9 p.m. local time.
British Summer, Greenwich Mean, etc. 
tell Can your son tell the time yet?
have Have you got the time?
make What time do you make it?
look at Look at the time! We'll be late.
ahead of/behind … ~ two hours behind Central European Time 
this time tomorrow, etc. This time tomorrow I'll be in Canada.
peak There are extra buses at peak times.
fix, set We need to fix a time for the next meeting. 
come You'll feel differently about it when the time comes. 
ahead of ~ Check the programme ahead of time.
behind ~ The plane took off an hour behind time.
by the ~ By the time you get there the meeting will be over.
in ~ We got home in time to see the end of the match.
on ~ The trains are rarely on 
precious We're wasting precious time.
lead, waiting There is a long lead time between order and delivery of the product. 
have Have you got time for a chat? I had no time to think.
give sb/sth I can certainly do the job if you give me time.
take (sb) It takes time to make changes in the law. It took her a long time to read the report. 
spend She spends much of her time reading.
kill, pass, while away It helps to pass the time.
devote, put She devotes all her spare time to gardening. He put all his time into the show.
allow They didn't allow much time for discussion.
find, make I can never find time to write letters. I can probably make the time to see them.
wait We had to wait some time before the bus arrived.
gain, save You would save time with a dishwasher.
lose, run out of We have no time to lose (= we must hurry). I didn't finish the test?I ran out of time.
play for Not knowing what to do, she played for time by going to the bathroom. 
be up, run out Sorry, your time is up. 
at a ~ He surfs the Internet for hours at a time.
for a ~ I lived there for a time.
in ~ You'll get used to the work in time.
over/with ~ Her skills improved with time. 
all in good time (= sth will happen when the time is right) Be patient, Emily! All in good time.
all the time/the whole time The letter was in my pocket all the time (= while I was looking for it). She leaves the lights on all the time (= always/repeatedly).
a battle/race against time Finishing the book was a race against time.
if time permits We will discuss this matter later, if time permits.
in the fullness of time (= when the time is right, usually after a long period), in good/plenty of time Get to the airport in good time (= plenty of time before the plane leaves).
in next to no time/in no time at all, in ten minutes', three hours', etc. time I'll be back in ten minutes' time.
in your own (good) time (= taking as long as you want/need), a length of time Have you lived abroad for any length of time?
most of the time, a period of time, some/a long time ago Her parents died a long time ago.
a waste of time What a waste of time! 
bad, difficult, hard, rough, sad, troubled, unhappy Times are hard for the unemployed.
have We had a great time at the party. 
change Times have changed since Grandma was young. 
at a/the~ He lived at the time of the French Revolution. At one time Mary was my best friend.
before your ~ The Beatles were before my time.
in your ~ Mr Curtis was the manager in my time (= when I was working there).
a sign of the times, time was when Time was when (= there was a time when) we never needed to lock our house at night. 
that, this I'm determined to pass this time.
last When was the last time you saw her?
another, next Next time you're here let's have lunch together.
each, every Every time I hear that song I feel happy.
appropriate, good, suitable Is this an appropriate time to discuss my salary?
bad, wrong This would be a bad time to tell her.
countless I've told you countless times. 
bide We'll have to bide our time until the rain stops. 
come Your time will come.
be ripe The time is ripe for revolution. 
at a/the ~ The lift can take four people at a time. At the time of writing, a ceasefire is under discussion. Hot water is available at all times. He can be rather moody at times.
by the ~ She'll have gone by the time we get there.
for the … ~ I told her not to do it for the umpteenth time.
~ for It's time for a break. 
at the present time, for the time being (= temporarily), a number of times, X times out of X three times out of ten 
enjoyable, fun, good, grand, great, marvellous, pleasant, splendid, wonderful It was a fun time for us girls.
have Did you have a good time in Spain? 
record He completed the course in record time. 
clock up, record She clocked up one of the fastest times of the year. 
beat, keep The conductor beat time with a baton. 
adhere to, follow, keep to Implementation of the reforms was kept to a very strict timetable.
according to the ~ According to the timetable, the bus should have come in at 9.00.
in a/the ~ It said in the timetable that a train was due at 5.30.
~ for The delegates outlined what they considered a realistic timetable for troop withdrawal. 
in a/the ~ Store the seeds in an airtight tin.
with a ~ The wine glass dropped to the floor with a tinkle. 
comparatively, relatively The minister appealed to the Cabinet not to target her comparatively tiny budget of £4 billion. 
little tiny/tiny little Look at his little tiny fingers. Aren't they sweet? 
as The senator has been widely tipped as a future president.
for The band is being hotly tipped for the top. 
easily, quickly She found herself tiring more quickly these days.
out The long walk had really tired me out. 
begin to After an hour Rick began to tire. 
wave Once the last boxes were packed away, he was overtaken by a wave of tiredness. 
overcome sb Finally tiredness overcame him, and he fell asleep on the sofa.
set in A desperate tiredness set in after hours of anxious waiting. 
a sign of tiredness The team was in good spirits and showed no signs of tiredness. 
role He played the title role in ‘Hamlet’.
track ‘Birth’, the title track of his latest album 
under a/the ~ She published her poetry under the title ‘The Land and the Garden’. 
new Forty per cent of new titles were actually new editions of existing books.
publish The company is publishing fewer titles than last year. 
grand, long She bears the grand title ‘Divisional President of the Finances Committee’.
courtesy, diplomatic, honorary, honorific, official ‘Mrs’ was a courtesy title for any unmarried woman in business at that time. ‘Minister’ is one of several diplomatic titles.
job His job title is Special Projects Officer.
full Victor Oldenburg, or Count Victor Oldenburg and Hess, to give him his full title 
bear, have, inherit She has a title (= is of noble birth).
award, bestow, confer The king bestowed lands and titles upon his followers. 
championship, French Open, Premier League, etc.
clinch, win Deportivo clinched the title with a goal in the final seconds 
challenge, fight, match He has been building up fitness for his world title challenge.
holder > Special page at SPORT 
lightly Toast the bread lightly on both sides. 
silently He raised his glass, silently toasting his absent son. 
in/with We toasted his victory in champagne. 
big, little The shoe pressed painfully against her big toe.
bare Under his bare toes the floor felt gritty.
stand on, tread on She stood on her toes to kiss him. Ouch! That was my toe you just trod on. (figurative) She trod on a lot of toes when she joined the company.
dip I dipped my toe in the river to test the temperature. (figurative) So far they have only dipped their toe in the potentially vast computer market.
touch Can you touch your toes (= while keeping your legs straight)? 
curl (often figurative) The man's broad smile made her toes curl (= made her feel embarrassed or uncomfortable). 
between the/your ~s He had some kind of fungus between his toes.
on your ~s He moved lightly on his toes like a boxer. (figurative) The threat of inspections kept us all on our toes (= made sure we kept everything up to standard and were ready). 
from head/top to toe He gave himself a good scrub from head to toe.
the tips of your toes I stood on the tips of my toes to look through the window.
in ~ of She presented them with a small gift in token of her thanks. 
as) a token of appreciation/friendship/respect We hope you will accept this book as a small token of our appreciation. 
amused, patronising He watched the kids throw water around with amused tolerance.
zero (of crime) Howard County has a zero tolerance policy on alcohol use by teenagers. 
for Some children have a low tolerance for boredom.
~ to Tolerance to alcohol decreases with age.
~ towards She was showing greater tolerance towards her younger sister than before. 
merely She actually seemed pleased to see him: most of her visitors she merely tolerated.
officially Union activity was officially tolerated but strongly discouraged.
no longer The government is not prepared to tolerate this situation any longer. 
be unable to, (not) be prepared to, (not) be willing to, cannot/could not, find sth difficult to, will/would not I will not tolerate this behaviour! 
readily, well This plant prefers alkaline soil, though it will readily tolerate some acidity. She tolerated the chemotherapy well. 
take The pressure of fame can take a terrible toll. The recession is taking its toll. 
mount, rise The death toll from yesterday's crash is still rising.
reach sth The casualty toll could reach 200. 
on Illness has taken a heavy toll on her. 
loose, sharp (both figurative) Everyone knows now, thanks to Ken's loose tongue (= he could not keep the secret). She could tear a character to pieces in three minutes with her sharp tongue. 
poke/put/stick out It's very rude to stick your tongue out at people.
run He ran his tongue nervously over his lips.
bite, hold (both figurative) She was dying to say something sarcastic to him, but bit her tongue and stayed silent.
free, loosen (both figurative) The wine had loosened his tongue.
roll/slip/trip off It's not a name that exactly trips off the tongue (= is easy to say). 
hang out The dog lay in a patch of shade with its tongue hanging out.
flick, flicker The snake's tongue flicked out of its mouth.
lick sth His tongue licked dry lips.
wag (figurative) This is a small island and tongues are beginning to wag (= people are beginning to gossip).
find (figurative) Before she could find her tongue (= speak) the door had closed behind him.
watch (figurative) You just watch your tongue (= be careful what you say)! 
be on the tip of your tongue (figurative) It was on the tip of her tongue to refuse.
get your tongue around/round sth (figurative) He was having trouble getting his tongue around my name.
a tongue of fire/flame (figurative) Tongues of flame licked up the walls. 
mother, native She speaks English and Danish, though her native tongue is German.
in a/the ~ She could hear men whispering in a foreign tongue. 
have out I had my tonsils out when I was ten. 
with a ~ The car overtook with a toot.
the toot of a horn, a toot on the horn The taxi driver gave a toot on the horn. > Note at SOUND 
come She came top in the exams. 
in She was top in maths.
of He was top of his class. 
broad, general, large, wide Before dealing with specific cases, she spoke on the broad topic of ‘discipline’.
diverse, wide-ranging The book covers such diverse topics as snorkelling and first aid.
controversial, sensitive It might be better to avoid such a controversial topic.
consider, cover, discuss, explore, deal with, focus on, look at, speak on, write on In the next chapter the writer focuses on the topic of adoption. 
work Our teaching is based largely on topic work. 
on a/the ~ Mr Graham will speak on the topic of dog breeding. 
a choice of topic She was an excellent speaker, but I found her choice of topic strange.
a range/variety of topics, a topic of conversation/discussion His main topic of conversation is football. 
flash, play, point, shine The policeman played his torch over the men's faces. I shone my torch through the crack. 
flash, play, shine A powerful torch shone in their direction. 
the beam of a torch, light from/of a torch We struggled to read the map by the light of the torch. 
light They lit their torches from the fire.
carry, hold Servants were carrying lighted torches. 
light The path to the castle was lit by blazing torches.
burn The torches were burning fiercely.
go out The torch flickered and went out. 
hit sth, strike sth The town was hit by a tornado last night.
in a/the ~ The building was badly damaged in a tornado. 
raging, roaring, rushing After heavy rain, the little stream becomes a raging torrent.
in ~s The rain poured down in torrents. 
unleash The sight of her father unleashed a torrent of emotions. 
in a ~ Her pent-up anger was released in a torrent of words.
lose, win England won the toss and chose to kick off. 
by/on) the toss of a coin The order of play was decided by the toss of a coin.
a toss of sb's/the head ‘Of course not, ’ she said with a toss of her head. 
combined, cumulative, grand, overall, sum His two goals give him a grand total of 32 for the season. The sum total of my knowledge of biology is not impressive.
jobless, unemployment Britain's jobless total rose by 20,000 last month. 
add up to, give, make (up) Their earnings were £250, £300 and £420, giving a total of £970.
bring, take A donation of £250 has been received, bringing the total to £3,750.
achieve The Greens achieved a total of 18 seats. 
in ~ In total, they spent 420 hours on the project.
not) actually, not even, not quite He did not actually touch the substance, but may have inhaled microparticles.
barely, hardly, scarcely You've hardly touched your food (= not eaten it).
almost, nearly, practically Their faces were almost touching.
briefly His fingers briefly touched hers.
accidentally, inadvertently He accidentally touched a live wire attached to overhead power cables.
never He said I kicked him, but I never touched him! 
(not) dare (to) Don't you dare touch me!
reach out to Her hand reached out to touch his cheek.
let sb He wouldn't let me touch the wound. 
on He touched her gently on the arm.
with She touched him with her hand. 
deeply The story touched me very deeply. PHRASAL VERBS touch on/upon sth 
just, merely Photojournalism and the birth of photography are merely touched on in the book. 
want to I want to touch briefly on another aspect of the problem. 
a bit, fairly, a little, pretty, quite Things were pretty tough at first. 
on It's very tough on the wives when the husbands go off like that. 
enough Has the government been tough enough on polluters? 
on The government has promised to get tough on crime.
with You have to be tough with these young thugs. 
act, talk (both informal) Then this guy started acting tough. 
enough Are you sure you're physically tough enough for this job?
all over We plan to tour all over the country.
in She has toured extensively in the US. 
foreign, Western
American, Japanese, etc.
attract, draw The Story of the Loch Ness Monster has attracted many tourists to the area.
drive/frighten away The high level of crime is frightening away tourists. 
area, centre, destination, haunt, resort, spot, town, trap Recently Edinburgh has become a popular tourist centre.
attraction, facility, sight Pompeii is one of Italy's prime tourist attractions. The theme park is the region's most popular tourist facility.
route, trail The town is off the usual tourist trail.
guide I bought a tourist guide to Paris. She works as a tourist guide.
potential The city has unrealized tourist potential.
influx of tourists The festival is accompanied by a huge influx of tourists. 
give sb A truck driver gave me a tow to the nearest garage. 
under ~ The ship, whose engine had failed, is now safely under tow. 
two-storey, three-storey, etc. They lived in a ten-storey tower in the town centre.
ancient, Gothic, medieval
twin Twin towers flanked the castle gateway.
control, lookout, observation, watch (also watchtower) Armed border guards manned the lookout towers.
to This chemical is toxic to many forms of life. 
leave The burglar had left several traces of his presence. Little trace is left of how Stone Age people lived.
discover, find The search party had found no trace of the missing climbers.
obliterate, remove Remove all traces of rust with a small wire brush.
disappear/sink/vanish without The ship seems to have sunk without trace. 
remain Traces still remain of the long-defunct Surrey Iron Railway. 
with/without a ~ of sth ‘No thanks,’ she said, with a trace of irritation in her voice.
without ~ The plane was lost without a trace over the Atlantic. 
discernible, faint, minute, slight, small, tiny There was not the faintest trace of irony in her voice.
contain The water was found to contain traces of sulphuric acid.
element, gas, metal, mineral Kelp is rich in vitamins and trace elements. 
for If possible, select pairs of fish that already have a track record for breeding.
~ in Applicants should have a proven track record in telesales. 
brisk, flourishing, lively, roaring, thriving All around the pyramids, salespeople were doing a roaring trade in souvenirs.
fair The organization promotes fair trade with developing countries.
retail, wholesale It has been a bad year for the retail trade.
carry on, conduct, do, engage in, ply the tools needed to carry on a trade All manner of hawkers and street sellers were plying their trade.
boost, build up, develop, expand, increase, promote a bid to boost foreign trade He built up a trade in seeds, corn and manure.
damage, harm A bitterly cold winter damaged industrial output and trade.
lose Shops have lost a day's trade.
dispute, war The countries were locked in a trade war, refusing to allow imports of each other's goods.
policy, practice The US was accused of employing unfair trade practices.
bloc The five countries formed a regional trade bloc.
delegation, mission Several local firms took part in a trade mission to Spain.
route The road has been an important trade route since prehistoric times.
buyer, customer The vase was bought by a trade buyer (= for example, somebody who works in the antiques trade).
in a/the ~ She's in the wholesale fruit trade. These special flour sacks are known in the trade as ‘pockets’.
~ between Trade between the Adriatic ports and their hinterland had grown.
~ in Steps were taken to ban the trade in ivory.
~ with The US has restricted trade with India. > Special page at BUSINESS 
by ~ She is a carpenter by trade. 
a jack of all trades (= a person who can do many different types of work), the tricks of the trade The experienced artisan would pass on the tricks of the trade to the apprentice. 
large China is now one of the largest traders in the world.
sole You can set up in business as a sole trader, in partnership or as a limited company.
busy, heavy, hectic, intensive In heavy trading, the 100-share index closed down 38 points.
fraudulent, illegal, insider a Wall Street dealer jailed for insider trading
sole Sole trading is where an individual carries on his or her own business.
temporary There are temporary traffic lights because of the roadworks. 
set Turn left at the third set of traffic lights. 
go though, jump He was stopped by the police for going through a red light. 
change (to sth), go green, etc. A line of vehicles waited for the traffic lights to change. Stop when the lights change to red.
be (on) green, etc. The lights were on red but she didn't stop.
work The traffic lights weren't working. 
at the ~s There was a hold-up at the lights. 
end in A family's outing ended in tragedy when their boat capsized.
happen, occur, strike (sb) Tragedy struck when their 8-year-old daughter was knocked down by a car. 
for sb The closure of the factory is a tragedy for the whole community. 
classical, Greek, Jacobean, Shakespearean 
scent Ants follow a scent trail laid down previously.
lay, leave, make The couple laid a false trail to escape the paparazzi. The tourists left a trail of litter behind them.
pick up The dog had picked up the trail of a rabbit.
lose The fox had crossed a stream, and the hounds lost the trail. 
go cold They had to find the kidnappers before the trail went cold. 
on sb's ~ Detectives had found several new clues and were back on the murderer's trail. 
a trail of blood, a trail of devastation The hurricane passed, leaving a trail of devastation in its wake.
hippy, tourist This restaurant is off the tourist trail.
campaign, comeback, winning (all figurative) After a disastrous few seasons, the team are on the comeback trail. 
follow, hit In 1967 she hit the hippy trail to India.
go, lead, wend its way The trail wends its way through leafy woodland and sunny meadows. 
for The team is training hard for the big match. 
graduate Many companies recruit graduate trainees to train as managers. 
as a ~ She joined as a management trainee. 
basic, initial, preliminary New recruits undergo six weeks' basic training at this naval base.
adequate, proper No one must operate the machinery without proper training.
minimal Using spreadsheets requires minimal training.
formal, informal He is good at selling, although he has had no formal training.
do, get, have, receive, undergo You have to do a year's intensive training to become a paramedic.
activity, course, exercise, initiative, package, plan, programme, project, scheme, strategy, system The soldiers were building a bridge as a training exercise.
by ~ She's an accountant by training.
in ~ I am delighted with the work he has done in training.
~ for Training for nursing was on strictly formal lines.
~ in Employees should be given training in safety procedures. 
hard, rigorous, serious, strict, tough She did six months' hard training 
ground, pitch, track (figurative) This local newspaper has been a training ground for several top journalists. 
in ~ Lewis is in serious training for the Olympics.
turn He turned traitor and joined the opposition.
to He is seen as a traitor to the cause. 
underfoot He saved a little girl from being trampled underfoot in the rush for the fire exit. 
on (often figurative) The government is trampling on the views of ordinary people.
over Police officers had been trampling all over the ground. 
be, lie, look, seem The village lay tranquil in the evening sunlight.
directly Skills cannot be transferred directly from a trainer to a trainee.
easily Data is easily transferred electronically.
formally Sovereignty was formally transferred on December 27.
across/between Can the disease be transferred across species?
from, into She transferred the sauce into a china jug.
considerably, fundamentally, profoundly, radically The riots radically transformed the situation.
miraculously He seems to have been miraculously transformed into a first-class player.
overnight Things cannot be transformed overnight. 
from, into The place was transformed from a quiet farming village into a busy port. 
mass An improved mass transit system would cut traffic on the roads.
point The port has become a transit point in the drug trade.
lounge The passengers had been transferred into the transit lounge.
shed The goods were still in a transit shed on the quay.
system The city has acquired a light rail transit system. 
in ~ Many of the goods were damaged in transit.
literally ‘Tiramisu’ literally translates as ‘pull-me-up’.
variously a Greek word variously translated as ‘summit’, ‘top’ and ‘finishing stroke’ 
be difficult to This word is difficult to translate. 
as The word ‘sensus’ can be translated as ‘feeling’.
for I don't speak Italian?can you translate for me?
from The book has been translated from the Japanese by Livia Yamaguchi.
into an expression that is difficult to translate into English 
widely translated The novel has been widely translated. 
automatically Teacher expectations do not automatically translate themselves into student results. 
into A small increase in local spending will translate into a big rise in council tax. 
utch, Japanese, etc.
translate from/into sth, work from/into sth translators working from Portuguese into English > Note at JOB 
from, through The disease cannot be transmitted through coughing or sneezing.
to The infection can be transmitted from a mother to her baby.
via The virus is easily transmitted via needles. 
completely, entirely, fully, perfectly, quite, totally They are so thin that they are quite transparent.
almost Her eyelids were blue and almost transparent.
from, into Organs are transplanted from donors into patients who need them.
to The Dutch successfully transplanted trees to the East Indies. 
radar, speed Slow down?there are speed traps along this stretch of road. 
free sth from The fox had managed to free itself from the trap.
bait Mousetraps are traditionally baited with cheese. 
death, debt, poverty, unemployment The overhead cable is a potential death trap for birds.
be/get caught in, fall into, stumble into, walk into It is easy to fall into the trap of taking out a loan you cannot afford.
childhood The phobia may have its root in a childhood trauma. 
frequent The job involves frequent travel.
time The new bypass will reduce travel time to the airport.
from, ~ to The price includes return rail travel from London Victoria to Dover. 
commercial Her father was a commercial traveller who sold kitchenware.
frequent Attractive discounts are available to frequent travellers.
independent Independent travellers often steer clear of the most touristy spots.
fellow I got to know my fellow travellers quite well in the course of the three-day journey.
unwary Stations can be dangerous places for the unwary traveller.
armchair (= sb who doesn't travel but likes to read about distant places) His travel books have given pleasure to generations of armchair travellers. 
guide Local tribesmen earn their living guiding travellers across the mountains. 
heavily He came down the stairs, treading as heavily as he could.
carefully, gingerly, warily She trod gingerly. It would be risky to hurry. (figurative) The government will have to tread carefully in handling this issue.
down She planted the seeds and trod the earth down. 
in Billy trod in a big puddle.
into Some cake crumbs had been trodden into the carpet.
on Be careful not to tread on the flowers. 
pirate, Roman, royal
chest, house, trove (figurative) This book is a treasure house of information on Arctic birds.
forgotten, hidden, secret, unexpected Many forgotten treasures have been discovered in the attics of old houses.
little I like to give the girls a little treat every now and then.
anniversary, birthday, Christmas, holiday
tasty Snails are a tasty treat for hedgehogs. 
as/for a ~ We took the kids to the zoo for a special treat. 
be in for a treat/have a treat in store If their latest album is half as good as their last one, we've a real treat in store. 
favourable, preferential, special, VIP She was given the VIP treatment after winning gold for her country at the Sydney Olympics.
brutal, cruel, degrading, harsh, ill-, inhuman, inhumane, rough, violent He claims he suffered ill-treatment at the hands of prison officers.
shabby You shouldn't put up with such shabby treatment. 
deserve He had done nothing to deserve such cruel treatment.
give sb, mete out (to sb) The treatment meted out to captured soldiers was harsh.
free, NHS
get, have, receive, undergo She is still undergoing medical treatment.
administer, give sb, provide (sb with) Paramedics are to have extra training in administering on-the-spot treatment.
seek When his depression worsened, he decided to seek treatment.
benefit from, respond to He responded well to treatment and is now walking again. 
in ~ He's in treatment for cocaine addiction.
~ for She is receiving treatment for a heart condition. 
sewage, surface, water Galvanizing is a common surface treatment for steel. 
in Some goods have almost trebled in price.
to The figure has more than trebled to 67 per cent. 
go on, make, take The family made the long trek west in 1890. 
faint, slight, small, tiny He felt a tiny tremor of excitement as he glimpsed the city lights.
send Her expression sent an icy tremor through him.
feel She felt a tremor run down her back when she saw him.
control He couldn't control the tremor in his voice. 
run A tremor ran through the audience.
shake sb/sth An uncontrollable tremor shook his mouth. 
with/without a ~ He managed to make his short speech without a tremor.
underlying Despite this month's disappointing figures, the underlying trend is healthy.
wider The increase in crime in London was just part of a wider trend.
growth, inflationary The latest figures show a clear growth trend in the service sector. 
begin, create, set, start In the 1960s, Britain set the fashion trends.
follow We are following the American trend towards more flexible working conditions.
indicate, reflect, show, suggest The data indicates a trend towards earlier retirement. 
indicate sth, reflect sth, suggest sth Current trends suggest that car traffic will continue to grow.
~ for A trend for romance and nostalgia has emerged.
construct (technical), draw Use your protractor to construct an equilateral triangle.
cut sth into I cut the sandwiches into triangles. 
set up A war crimes tribunal was set up to prosecute those charged with atrocities.
go to The dismissed workers decided to go to a tribunal.
refer sth to The case was referred to an industrial tribunal.
tell She told the tribunal that she was a victim of sex discrimination. 
be in session, hold a session The tribunal held its first session later that month.
conclude sth, decide sth, find sth The tribunal found for her employers (= judged that they were right).
settle sth The dispute was settled by a tribunal.
at a/the ~ The police gave evidence at the tribunal.
before a/the ~ No legal aid was available to cover representation before tribunals.
by ~ The fee for the player will be decided by tribunal. 
silent Thousands of people stood in silent tribute to the dead president.
floral Floral tributes were piled up outside the church. 
pay The couple paid tribute to the helicopter crew who rescued them.
lead The prime minister led the tributes to ‘a great statesman and a decent man’. 
flood in Tributes flooded in when her death was announced. 
to The bridge is a remarkable tribute to the skill of the Victorian railway engineers. 
mere The flood of offers of help had dwindled to a mere trickle. 
away, off Trim away the lower leaves.
over, up One of the boys tripped over and crashed into a tree. Be careful or you'll trip up. 
on She tripped on the loose stones.
over I nearly tripped over the cat. 
trip and fall Don't leave toys on stairs where someone could trip and fall. 
down She came tripping lightly down the stairs.
latest, new Hollywood's favourite actor was modest about his latest triumph.
score The union scored a triumph in negotiating a minimum wage within the industry.
hail sth as, see sth as They hailed the signing of the agreement as a major diplomatic triumph. 
in ~ The leading runner raised his arms in triumph.
~ against their recent triumph against Brazil triumph against seemingly insuperable odds
~ for The match was a personal triumph for Rivaldo.
~ over Her Wimbledon victory was hailed as a triumph over adversity. 
emerge, return The Democrats have emerged triumphant from the political crisis. 
positively There was a positively triumphant note in her voice.
ultimately Hers is a moving and ultimately triumphant story. 
laden, loaded The waiter was pushing a laden sweet trolley towards our table.
load, pile Passengers with trolleys piled high with luggage waited at the check-in desk.
service On many trains, refreshments are provided by a trolley service. 
on a/the ~ They brought breakfast to the room on a trolley. 
deploy, mass, send (in) They are massing troops on the border. The UN is sending peace-keeping troops into the trouble spot.
provide (sb with), supply (sb with) The British Army has provided troops for the UN all over the world.
command, lead, order He ordered troops to shoot to kill if attacked.
quarter, station Five hundred troops were quartered in a village just behind the front line.
be based, be positioned, be posted, be stationed troops based in West Germany
advance, march, move in, move into sth Allied troops were advancing on the capital.
arrive, cross (into) sth, enter sth, land, reach sth Russian troops crossed into Austrian territory.
mass Government troops have massed on the northern border.
attack (sb), invade (sth), overrun sth, storm sth, surround sth Rebel troops stormed the presidential palace.
deployment, levels, numbers, presence Various figures for US troop presence in Europe were quoted.
break into When the horses reached the field they broke into a brisk trot.
at a ~ We set off at a fast trot.
into a ~ He kicked his horse into a trot. 
bad, big, deep, desperate, real, serious The company is in desperate trouble financially.
boyfriend, girl, man, etc. He was obviously upset, and muttered something about girlfriend trouble.
mean, spell She knew that a hygiene inspection could spell trouble for her restaurant.
have, suffer from He has had back trouble since changing jobs.
get (yourself) into, run into The firm soon ran into financial trouble.
pour out She poured out all her troubles to her mother.
cause, lead to The printer's causing trouble again.
forget, put behind you He put his past troubles behind him and built up a successful new career. 
come Trouble often comes when you're least expecting it. 
in ~ When she saw the teacher coming towards her she knew she was in big trouble.
~ for He got into trouble for not doing his homework.
~ with I've had endless trouble with my car. He is in trouble with the law again. 
a cause/source of trouble, a history of … trouble She has a history of back trouble.
in times of trouble In times of trouble she always turns to her mum.
trouble ahead I can see trouble ahead. 
cause, make He had a reputation for making trouble in the classroom.
be asking for, be looking for, court, stir up He was asking for trouble when he insulted their country. Fans wandered the town after the match looking for trouble. 
be brewing There was trouble brewing among the workforce.
blow up, flare (up) Trouble blew up when the gang was refused entry to a nightclub. 
spot Extra journalists have been sent to the main trouble spots. 
considerable, enormous, great They went to enormous trouble to make her stay a pleasant one. 
bring (sb), cause (sb), give sb, make, put sb to I don't want to make trouble for her. I don't want to put you to any trouble.
go to, take We took the trouble to plan our route in advance.
be worth Do you think it's worth the trouble of booking seats in advance?
save sb Why don't we bring a pizza to save you the trouble of cooking?
thank sb for Thank you very much for all your trouble. 
be more trouble than it's worth Growing your own vegetables is more trouble than it's worth. 
vaguely She still felt vaguely troubled by it all.
at/by He was deeply troubled by the news. 
short I was still in short trousers (= still only a boy) at the time.
drop, pull down He dropped his trousers in a rude gesture. 
bottoms, leg, pocket He tucked his trouser bottoms into his socks. 
in ~ He disapproves of women in trousers. > Special page at CLOTHES 
brief, temporary A temporary truce had been reached earlier that year.
call, declare, offer, propose The guerrillas have called a one-month truce.
agree (to/on), conclude, make, negotiate, reach The priest helped to negotiate a truce between the warring sides.
collapse The two-day truce collapsed in intense shellfire.
expire, lapse They renewed the war as soon as the truce expired. 
~ among/between An uneasy truce prevailed between them at dinner.
~ with the fragile truce with France 
wearily He trudged wearily on down the road.
across, along, around, down, through, up We trudged slowly through the fields. 
card (often figurative) Vienna's trump cards include concerts in the palaces where Mozart made music.
suit > Note at CARD 
beat sb with Some of the prisoners were beaten about the head with rubber truncheons. 
great They have placed great trust in him as a negotiator.
blind, implicit They followed the instructions in blind trust that all would turn out well.
sacred They accepted the responsibility as a sacred trust (= sth that had been trusted to them).
have We have absolute trust in the teachers. Does the scheme have the trust and cooperation of the workers?
abuse, betray He claimed the government had betrayed the trust of the British peo
~ in His trust in them was misplaced. 
a breach of trust, a lack of trust, a position of trust As a teacher, you are in a position of trust. 
unit Investing in a unit trust reduces risks for small investors.
hold sth in/on, keep sth in The proceeds will be held in trust for the children until they are eighteen.
create, establish, set up Wealthy people can set up overseas trusts for their children.
in ~ His father put the money in trust for him until he was 21.
~ for the Cecil Houses Trust for old people 
joint They act as joint trustees of the fund.
for They hold the land as trustees for the infant. 
not entirely, not quite I don't think you are being entirely truthful. 
about She was completely truthful about her involvement in the affair. 
desperately, frantically, hard She was trying desperately to stay afloat. Sam was trying hard not to laugh.
decide to I decided to try again.
be going to I hope you're not going to try and deny it.
let sb Can't you do it? Let me try. 
be just/only trying to do sth I was just trying to help!
give up trying I've given up trying to persuade her.
try your best/hardest/utmost I tried my best not to laugh. 
lie in, soak in I love soaking in a hot tub.
capillary, bronchial, Fallopian, neural 
in/into a/the ~ I put the poster back into its tube.
through a/the ~ He gave the lamb its food through a tube.
up a ~ 2 the tube the Underground 
by ~ I go to work by tube.
on the ~ I bumped into him on the tube. 
uesday noun > Note at DAY 
hard He tugged harder, but it was caught fast. 
at She tugged at his arm to get his attention.
by He tugged me by the sleeve. 
fields > Note at FLOWER(for verbs) 
in Don't forget to tune in to our special election programme this evening. 
for, to I tuned to the BBC for the late news. 
badly tuned He heard everything through a screen of interference, like on a badly tuned radio.
stay tuned Stay tuned for the news. 
hallowed, home (of a sports pitch) the hallowed turf of Wembley the team's first success of the season on home turf 
cut They still cut turf here for fuel.
constant Her mind was in a state of constant turmoil.
cause, plunge/send/throw sb/sth into Her emotional life was thrown into turmoil. 
in ~ He came to a stop, his chest heaving, his thoughts in turmoil.
historic This win could prove to be a historic turning point (= one that will be remembered) in the fortunes of the team.
historical, political The industrial revolution was a major historical turning point (= a turning point in history). 
reach In 1914 the world reached a turning point in its history. 
come The turning point came when reinforcements arrived from the south. 
at a ~ The process of disarmament is at a crucial turning point.
next VERB + TURN-OFF take Take the next turn-off.
miss, overshoot We were chatting and overshot our turn-off. 
for the turn-off for Leeds 
aggregate, combined, total The combined turnover of both businesses has doubled in the last two years.
record The company recorded a turnover of £50 million last year.
be down Turnover was down compared with last year's figures.
double, grow, increase, rise The firm's UK turnover increased (by) 30% to £10 million.
drop, fall, slip Turnover fell from £12 million to £11 million.
reach sth Turnover reached $2 billion in the 12 months to September.
exceed sth, top sth The company's worldwide turnover exceeds $5 billion. 
a decline/fall in turnover, an increase/a rise in turnover > Special page at BUSINESS 
population The inner city has a rapid population turnover. 
art, English, etc. 
to Roger Ascham, tutor to Queen Elizabeth > Note at JOB 
American, Cockney, etc. 
have, speak with She had a slight Australian twang.
with a ~ The words came out with an Irish twang to them. 
at ~, in/into the ~ She walked away into the thickening twilight. 
give sb The letter still gives him a twinge when he thinks of it. 
give sth Give the cap another twist?it's not on properly. 
of He finished him off with a quick twist of the knife.
give sth The writer takes well-known fairy tales and gives them an ironic twist.
take The scandal has taken a new twist this week. 
in a ~, with a ~ classic French dishes with a twist (= with a difference)
~ to In a bizarre twist to the evening the police came at eleven and arrested our host. 
a twist in the tail The story has a twist in the tail?six months later she married the husband of her victim.
slight His mouth gave a slight twitch.
have He has a twitch in his right eye.
furiously He was sitting at his desk typing furiously.
out, up I've written the report and will type it up next week. 
into She typed the details into the computer.
on This letter was typed on an electronic typewriter. 
consider sth, regard sth as, take sth as You must not take this attitude as typical of English people. 
absolutely, altogether, entirely, just That's altogether typical of Tom! They're going to be late? Now, isn't that just typical?
by no means, not necessarily East Anglia is by no means typical of rural Britain.
of Julia is fairly typical of her age group. 
audio, copy, shorthand > Note at JOB 
petty Some of the prison officers were petty tyrants. 
rule sth The country had long been ruled by tyrants. 
under a/the ~ The kings of Sparta would not serve under the tyrants of Syracuse. 
extremely, hideously, incredibly, really, very The witch was hideously ugly.
pretty, quite A fight started and things got pretty ugly.
find yourself, leave sb, make sb She found herself unable to meet his gaze. The accident left him unable to walk.
deem sth The road was deemed unable to cope with increased traffic. 
apparently, seemingly He went on, apparently unable to stop.
temporarily Clare nodded, temporarily unable to speak.
constitutionally, physically He seemed constitutionally unable not to give his opinion on anything and everything. 
unwilling or unable He remained silent, unwilling or unable to say what was in his mind. 
apparently, seemingly She was seemingly unaffected by his presence. 
by He appeared totally unaffected by this experience. 
make sth This latest incident makes his dismissal unavoidable. 
mentally She became mentally unbalanced after the accident. 
completely, wholly The report is completely unbalanced.
be, look, seem The French team looks unbeatable.
remain United remain unbeatable at the top of the League. 
almost, virtually He now has an almost unbeatable lead over his rivals. 
add (to), fuel, increase Her comments will add to the uncertainty of the situation. Her comments will add uncertainty to an already complicated situation.
face They are facing some uncertainty about their jobs. 
~ as to There's considerable uncertainty as to whether the government's job creation strategies will work.
an area of uncertainty One area of uncertainty remains: who will lead the team?
of The houses were totally uncharacteristic of the area. 
make sth Sharp stones on the path made walking barefoot rather uncomfortable.
find sth I find these chairs incredibly uncomfortable. 
become, get He started to get a bit uncomfortable as the conversation continued.
make sb The way he looked at her made her distinctly uncomfortable.
with Planners seem a little uncomfortable with the current government guidelines. 
act, appear, be, look, seem, sound I tried to act unconcerned. 
about They appeared completely unconcerned about what they had done.
by He was apparently unconcerned by his failure to gain a university place. 
leave sth The question cannot be left undecided. 
as yet She is as yet undecided in which direction she wants to make her future career. 
about He is still undecided about what to do.
as to They are undecided as to whether to buy a new car.
on The government remains undecided on this issue. 
badly, considerably, greatly, grossly, massively, seriously, substantially He realized that he had seriously underestimated their strength.
sth should not be underestimated The importance of these feelings should not be underestimated. 
in the ~ I always seem to get lost in the underground.
heavily The word ‘not’ was heavily underlined. 
just, merely, only, simply This disaster merely underlines the need for a consistent foreign policy.
be intended to a move intended to underline US concern over the issue 
in your ~ He sat on the examination table in his underpants. > Special page at CLOTHES 
easily, readily Warning notices must be readily understandable. 
to The instructions must be understandable to the average user. 
gross ‘A little strange’ is a gross understatement. 
a bit of/something of an understatement, the understatement of the year (informal) To say he wasn't amused must be the understatement of the year. 
racist, sexual The article was full of racist undertones. 
in an ~ ‘I don't think she's been told yet,’ he said in an undertone. The couple at the next table were speaking in undertones. 
in the … ~ She was a shady figure in the Dublin underworld. 
be, feel She felt undressed without her hat.
get He got undressed and ready for bed. 
half He was half undressed when the doorbell rang. 
become, get, grow We were starting to grow slightly uneasy.
about I felt distinctly uneasy about lending her so much money. 
among the ~ The party's policies were popular among the unemployed. 
the plight of the unemployed, the ranks of the unemployed He graduated with a good degree, only to join the ranks of the unemployed. 
most, very Help came from a most unexpected quarter.
not entirely His death was not entirely unexpected.
rather, somewhat It happened in rather unexpected circumstances. 
to The language was completely unfamiliar to me. 
with We were quite unfamiliar with the town. 
make sb/sth, render sb/sth His conduct made him unfit to act as director of a company.
consider sb/sth, declare sb/sth, deem sb/sth, find sb/sth The house was declared quite unfit for human habitation. 
for completely unfit for our purposes She was found unfit for work. 
extremely, most, particularly, singularly, very It was a most unfortunate choice of expression.
to She was really unfriendly to me. 
become, grow She grew more unhappy as the years went by.
make sb It makes me very unhappy to see you so miserable. 
deeply, desperately, distinctly, dreadfully, extremely, most, really, terribly, very, wretchedly She is deeply unhappy. He described it as ‘a most unhappy and distressing case’.
entirely We felt entirely unhappy with the whole situation.
equally He was equally unhappy with the alternative.
about He sounded a bit unhappy about the extra work he had to do.
at She was very unhappy at the idea of staying in London.
with They were terribly unhappy with the arrangements. 
absolutely, completely, quite, totally At that time, it was completely unheard-of for girls to go to university.
hitherto, previously He was sentenced to a hitherto unheard-of seven life terms in prison. 
regulation She was wearing the regulation uniform of tunic, hat and tie.
standard (figurative) They wore the standard uniform of the well-to-do American out of office hours.
dress a man in the full dress uniform of the US Marines
in (a/the) ~ The limousine was driven by a chauffeur in uniform. A man in a uniform stopped us entering.
out of ~ a soldier out of uniform > Special page at CLOTHES 
declare sth Fifty homes were declared uninhabitable. 
to Dolphin sounds are unintelligible to humans. 
close, tight Some of the member states wanted a tighter union rather than the loose confederation that developed.
full a move towards full European union
break up The Soviet Union broke up after only a few years of liberalization. 
~ with the union with East Germany > See TRADE UNION 
basic, fundamental The family is the basic unit of society.
break sth down into, divide sth into Large departments were broken down into smaller units. 
per unit Electricity is ten pence per unit. 
cohesive The new manager changed a talented collection of individuals into a cohesive unit.
baby, casualty, emergency, intensive care, maternity, psychiatric, surgical, etc. She works in the maternity unit at the local hospital.
be attached to The cancer research unit is attached to the local university. 
install We're having new kitchen units installed. 
complete Complete political unity is impossible to achieve.
European, German, Irish, etc.
restore He restored peace and unity in the country after years of civil war.
call for, promote The party is calling for greater political and economic unity in Europe. 
~ among The dispute has destroyed unity among the workers.
unity in diversity The organization promotes racial tolerance and unity in diversity. 
create Do you believe God created the universe? 
in the ~ Could there be intelligent life elsewhere in the universe? 
remain These sites remain largely unknown to the British public. 
absolutely, completely, entirely, quite, totally, utterly His whereabouts were quite unknown during this period.
almost, practically, virtually This drug was practically unknown in Britain.
comparatively, relatively She was then still comparatively unknown.
otherwise He cites the works of two otherwise unknown authors, the originals of these works having been lost. 
to Gold was totally unknown to their civilization. 
appear, be, look, sound The takeover bid now looks unlikely to succeed.
consider sth, think sth He thought it unlikely that she would refuse. 
inherently A collapse into new forms of fascism is inherently unlikely in any Western democracy. 
consider sb/sth, regard sb/sth as, think sb/sth The number thirteen is traditionally considered unlucky. 
dead, desperately, extremely, very She was desperately unlucky to fall as badly as she did.
with She has been very unlucky with injuries this year. 
leave sb Her daughter's accident had left her curiously unmoved. 
by He was quite unmoved by my anger. 
completely, entirely, quite, totally, wholly No, no, that's quite unnecessary.
become, get, turn Things started to get unpleasant when their neighbours called in the police.
make sth He may make life unpleasant for the rest of us.
find sb/sth I found the atmosphere in there extremely unpleasant. 
not altogether, not entirely The overall feeling was a strange mixture of sensations, not altogether unpleasant.
fairly, pretty, quite, rather, slightly, somewhat His clothes smelled pretty unpleasant. 
to He was very unpleasant to my friends. 
among Her close relationship with the teacher increased her unpopularity among her schoolmates.
somehow He seemed somehow unreal, a creature from another world.
curiously, oddly, strangely She felt curiously unreal, as if she were in the midst of a dream. 
widespread There was widespread industrial unrest in the north.
fresh, further, renewed The murder of a boy by police sparked renewed unrest in the occupied zone.
period, wave The increase in fees sparked a new wave of student unrest. 
crush, deal with, put down, quell The government's attempts to crush serious popular unrest led to civil war. 
during (the) ~ Many shops were looted during the unrest.
completely, quite, thoroughly In his desire for power, he has become thoroughly unscrupulous.
make sth The huge proportions of the main rooms made the house unsuitable for conversion into flats.
consider sth, deem sth, find sth Many tasks were considered unsuitable for women. 
consider sth This would have been considered unthinkable only a decade ago. 
hitherto, previously A hitherto unthinkable question was asked.
to This course of action would have been unthinkable to the Russian generals. 
appear, be, lie, look, remain, sit, stand, stay The church has lain empty and unused since 1994.
leave sth The meeting rooms are left unused for long periods. 
formally, officially The government has officially unveiled its plans for tax reform. 
appear, be, feel, look, seem, sound He complained of feeling unwell.
with You should delay vaccination if you are unwell with a fever. 
give (sb), provide (sb with) The report gives an update on the currency crisis.
~ to We need an update to the mailing list. 
constantly We are constantly upgrading our software to meet customers' needs. 
with All the machines can be upgraded with the new processors. 
unanimously Three judges unanimously upheld the sentence. 
be determined to We are determined to uphold the law.
vote to The IWC voted to uphold the ban on commercial whaling.
during/in the ~ He was killed in the Warsaw uprising.
become, get Don't get so upset about it!
leave sb, make sb The incident had left him visibly angry and upset. 
badly, bitterly, deeply, desperately, dreadfully, extremely, genuinely, greatly, particularly, profoundly, really, seriously, terribly, very She's obviously deeply upset by his behaviour.
at He was upset at missing all the excitement.
with I think she may be a bit upset with you. 
easily She was sensitive and easily upset. 
not mean to, not want to, not wish to I'm sorry?I didn't mean to upset you. Keep the volume down?we don't want to upset the neighbours!
be likely to This decision is likely to upset a lot of people. 
get Try to laugh at it instead of getting uptight.
all (informal) He gets all uptight if anyone criticizes him!
about He's feeling a bit uptight about his exam tomorrow. 
be on, take Sales are on the upturn. Their fortunes have taken an upturn in recent months. 
come We expect an increase in demand when the economic upturn eventually comes. 
rdu noun > Note at LANGUAGE 
constantly, repeatedly He has repeatedly urged the government to do something about this.
be, seem, sound Can you come to the phone?it sounds urgent.
quite, rather Don't forget that one, it's rather urgent. 
normal With normal usage, the equipment should last at least five years.
drug Drug usage by teenagers has increased in recent years.
of Usage of computers in schools is increasing. 
common, everyday, general, normal, ordinary, popular That word is no longer in common usage.
current, modern a book on current English usage
actual Actual usage of the word is different from the meaning given in the dictionary.
American, English, etc.
come into, enter The term ‘eco-tourism’ entered common usage in the 1990s. 
in ~ The word has a slightly different meaning in popular usage. 
patterns of usage Dictionary definitions tend to show stereotypical patterns of usage. 
sparingly This paint is very expensive, so please use it sparingly.
frequently, generally, habitually, normally, regularly, usually Do you habitually use display screen equipment as a significant part of your job?
up The oil had all been used up. 
be easy to, be simple to These garden shears are lightweight and easy to use.
be likely to, tend to the factors that make people likely to use heroin Manufacturers tend to use disks made in the US.
allow sb to, be entitled to, let sb, permit sb to Candidates are not allowed to use dictionaries in the exam.
as The tennis court is sometimes used as a car park.
make yourself She told Fred to make himself useful.
enormously, especially, exceptionally, extremely, genuinely, highly, more than (informal), particularly, really, tremendously, very making an exceptionally useful contribution to the debate In all departments, Leeds looked a more than useful side (= they played very well).
equally The same information is equally useful when negotiating.
generally, universally This method has proved the most generally useful.
practically The subject is practically useful and will stand you in good stead when looking for a job.
in She was very useful in dealing with foreign visitors.
be, feel, prove Her efforts to avoid him proved useless.
leave sth, make sth, render sth The condition rendered her legs virtually useless.
reject sth as They rejected the designs as useless. 
worse than A computer program with too many icons is worse than useless.
equally There are two manuals, both of them equally useless. 
as A candle is practically useless as a light source.
for The land is useless for cattle.
in This drug is useless in the treatment of patients with Aids.
to The information was useless to him. 
at I'm pretty useless at this job. 
quite Don't worry?it's quite usual to have a few problems at first.
far from This kind of behaviour is far from usual in children of this age. 
for It's usual for the man to propose marriage. 
as per usual (informal) Everyone blamed me as per usual.
as usual (= in the same way as what happens most of the time or in most cases) Steve, as usual, was the last to arrive.
business as usual (= things will continue as normal in spite of a difficult situation) It's business as usual at the factory, even while investigators sift through the bomb wreckage.
in the usual way The metal can then be painted in the usual way. 
fully, to the full The new computer system is not being fully utilized yet.
as Concrete had long been utilized as a bonding and covering material. 
suitable The agency will let you know if they have any suitable vacancies.
create, leave Her going on maternity leave will create a temporary vacancy.
arise, exist, occur A vacancy has arisen in our sales department. 
moral, political, spiritual The writer criticized the moral vacuum in society.
power Her resignation left a power vacuum in the government. 
create, leave, produce The machine then creates a vacuum.
fill Other gases rush in to fill the vacuum. 
be, look, sound ‘Where did you leave it?’ Isobel looked vague.
become, get She seems to be getting rather vague as she grows older.
leave sth The identity of the city in the novel is deliberately left vague. 
extremely, hopelessly, very Her directions were hopelessly vague.
enough, sufficiently It was a vague enough concept for the liberals to unite around.
deliberately, intentionally You're being deliberately vague.
necessarily Since the officers knew little themselves their reassurances were necessarily vague.
notoriously The law is notoriously vague on this point. 
about I am vague about what happened during the rest of the night.
as to I was suitably vague as to exactly how I had acquired the money.
in The statement was vague in its wording. 
equal Don't you think that both views have equal validity?
face The theory has the face validity of being consistent with recent findings.
legal, scientific The legal validity of the claims has been challenged. 
give sth, lend sth His reputation lends a certain validity to the approach that it might not deserve.
accept, confirm, uphold The judges upheld the validity of the previous judgement.
of … ~ The results are of doubtful validity.
demonstrate, display, show He showed valour and skill on the battlefield. 
at The company has recently been valued at $6 billion. 
negatively Housework is negatively valued as a retreat from a disliked alternative?employment work.
as I value her very highly as a friend.
for He hated to be valued for his looks alone. 
fit The plumber will fit some new safety valves.
open You need special tools to open the valve.
car Car vandals caused more than £10,000 worth of damage to vehicles last Saturday. 
deter, discourage The windows are covered with grilles to deter vandals. 
just, simply I turned round and she had simply vanished.
quickly, rapidly Her feelings of shyness rapidly vanished.
from All thoughts of romance vanished from his mind.
into She vanished into the mist. 
vanish from the face of the earth, vanish from sight, vanish into thin air At a stroke she could make things vanish into thin air.
altogether, completely, entirely, totally Many of these old cinemas have now vanished altogether.
long since The people who built this temple have long since vanished.
forever Much of the land we loved has vanished forever. 
from This plant is vanishing from the British countryside. 
cloud There was a hissing sound, and clouds of vapour were emitted. 
form, turn to The particles then form a vapour.
extremely, highly, very, widely Polar habitats are harsh and highly variable.
infinitely These systems are infinitely variable.
many and varied The opportunities the job offers are many and varied. 
coat The table needed two coats of varnish. 
apply Apply the varnish evenly over the whole surface.
protect sth You need a good quality varnish to protect the timber. 
stand A silver vase stood on the mantelpiece. 
sharply, violently, wildly The ship veered round wildly in the rough sea.
away, round The plane veered away to the left. 
between (figurative) He veered between calm acceptance and hysterical accusations.
from (figurative) The play veers from loopy comedy to serious moralizing.
off The car veered off the road.
to The path veers sharply to the right.
towards He veered left towards them. 
strict They are strict vegetarians. 
suitable for vegetarians All our cheeses are suitable for vegetarians. 
moving, oncoming, passing She was blinded by the lights from an oncoming vehicle.
parked, stationary The bus crashed into a stationary vehicle.
stolen The thieves escaped in a stolen vehicle.
wheeled The city centre is off-limits to wheeled vehicles.
convoy The president's car was being followed by a convoy of vehicles. 
hire Hire a four-wheel-drive vehicle?there are lots of spots to discover off the beaten track.
impound, tow away The vehicle was impounded as part of the police investigation.
abandon Sniffer dogs were brought in to follow the men after they abandoned the vehicle in a ditch. 
arrive An eyewitness said, ‘We saw loads of smoke, and then the emergency vehicles arrived.’
collide, crash (into sth) Two drivers escaped injury when their vehicles collided near Thirsk.
for The play is a perfect vehicle for her talents.
~ of The Students' Union is the main vehicle of communication for students in the college. 
blue A blue vein throbbed in his forehead.
broken, thread, varicose She uses make-up to hide the thread veins in her cheeks.
course/run along/through, flow through, pump through, race through, rush through He felt the adrenalin coursing through his veins. 
bulge, pulse, stand out, throb The veins stood out on her throat and temples. 
hit, strike The team have hit a rich vein of form recently.
of The writer tapped into a rich vein of humour in the play. 
in a different vein, in a lighter/more serious vein Fortunately, the rest of the evening continued in a lighter vein.
strip (off), strip sb/sth of They have stripped the veneer of jingoism from the play, by showing war in its true horror. 
disguise sth, hide sth, mask sth He managed to acquire a thin veneer of knowledge to mask his real ignorance.
crack For the first time her veneer of politeness began to crack. 
behind/below/beneath/under a/the ~ They're brutal people behind their civilized veneer.
inject, spit The snake injects the venom immediately after biting its prey. 
spit She surveyed him coldly with eyes that spat venom. 
with ~ She said it quickly and with venom. 
through a/the ~ Air passes through a vent. 
adequate, good Inspectors checked that there was adequate ventilation.
through The windows at the back are blocked up, so there is no through ventilation. 
give, provide Zips up the sides of the jacket give good ventilation. 
cautiously She ventured cautiously into the room.
far, further (afield) Some of the men ventured further out to sea.
abroad, forth, out, outside A few people ventured out into the street. 
dare (to) She would not have dared venture here alone. 
away from, beyond, into, out of They rarely ventured beyond their local market town. 
main What's the main verb of the sentence?
use In this essay he has used the same verbs over and over again.
take ‘Government’ can take a singular or plural verb.
agree with The subject doesn't agree with the verb.
conjugate, inflect Do you know how to conjugate the verb ‘seek’?
modify, qualify Adverbs modify verbs. 
take sth Transitive verbs take a direct object.
agree with sth, inflect Add an ending to make the verb agree with the subject.
bring sb/sth to (figurative) This action brought the country to the verge of economic collapse. 
on the ~ (figurative) She was on the verge of a nervous breakdown when she finally sought help. 
regard sth as Farmers regard foxes as vermin.
operate He was accused of operating the vessel while drunk.
register The vessel was registered in Bermuda.
ram The captain of the boat was accused of ramming a patrol vessel.
refloat A salvage team failed to refloat the vessel.
board Police boarded and searched the vessel.
swamp Huge waves swamped the vessel. 
be afloat It was one of the largest vessels afloat.
sail The damaged vessel sailed on for another 50 miles.
be bound for sth a French vessel bound for Nigeria
enter a port, make port The vessel finally made port after thirty days at sea.
carry sb/sth The vessel carried a crew of 130.
go/lie/run aground, sink The vessel flooded and began to sink. 
aboard a/the ~ They managed to haul the survivors aboard the vessel.
alongside a/the ~ A rescue boat managed to come alongside the crippled vessel.
on/on board a/the ~ A fire broke out on board the vessel. 
empty It is a scientific fact that empty vessels make the most noise.
contain sth > See BLOOD VESSEL 
last, remaining The government has to remove any last vestiges of corruption. 
preserve, retain I'm struggling to retain any vestige of belief in his innocence.
show He showed no vestige of remorse for his crime. 
without a ~ He looked at her without a vestige of sympathy.
for All goods are carefully vetted for quality before they leave the factory. 
vetting procedure We are introducing new security vetting procedures. 
cast, exercise, impose, use The board can exercise its veto to prevent the decision.
lift The agreement became possible when Spain lifted its veto.
override, overturn The Senate voted to override the president's veto. 
against The nobles had a virtual veto against peasant candidates.
~ on The Opposition effectively have a veto on constitutional reform.
continued, continuing, future, long-term She is very negative about the long-term viability of the project.
prove Once the railways had proved their viability expansion was rapid.
doubt, question The company has questioned the commercial viability of the mine.
through The thuds vibrated through the car.
with The atmosphere seemed to vibrate with tension. 
indulge (in) He used his inheritance to indulge his vices of drinking and gambling. 
become, get, turn The computer wars are going to get vicious over the next few years. 
be, emerge (as) The team emerged as worthy victors. 
over The French pair fought back to finish two sets to one victors over the Williams sisters. 
clear, clear-cut, comfortable, convincing, crushing, easy, emphatic, handsome, landslide, massive, overwhelming, resounding, sweeping His party won a landslide victory in the elections.
conclusive, decisive The army won the decisive victory that changed the course of the war.
hollow, Pyrrhic
clinch, ensure, notch up, pull off, record, score, secure, snatch, win They would do whatever lay in their power to ensure victory for themselves. The Hungarians pulled off a surprise victory against the Italian champions.
taste The England cricket team has tasted victory for the first time this season.
roar/romp/storm/sweep to Labour swept to victory in the 2001 election.
hail Union leaders hailed the socialists' victory as a huge step forward.
claim The outcome left both sides claiming victory.
deny sb The Dutch champions were denied victory in a tough 2?2 draw at Porto. 
against a victory against Fascism
~ for The case was hailed as a victory for the common man.
~ over their resounding victory over England 
copy (sth) onto, record (sth) onto Film can also be copied onto videotape.
screen The videotape of the attack caused outrage when it was screened on the news. 
cautiously, suspiciously These results should be viewed cautiously.
objectively Try to view the situation objectively.
as This behaviour is not viewed as acceptable.
from trying to view the situation from an American perspective
with They tend to view foreigners with suspicion. 
generally/widely viewed as sth He is widely viewed as a possible prime minister.
alternative, contrasting, different, differing, opposite The magazine likes to publish articles with alternative viewpoints.
narrow I find his viewpoint on this matter very narrow.
adopt, take He always takes the opposite viewpoint to the rest of the group.
share I understand her viewpoint, but do not share it.
support He quoted recent test results to support his viewpoint.
look at/see/view sth from Seen from the student's viewpoint, the oral exam can be frightening.
from the ~ of From the viewpoint of teachers, there has been a great increase in work. 
from a purely … viewpoint From a purely commercial viewpoint, the film was a failure. 
extra, increased, special You should exercise extra vigilance about locking your car properly. 
relax The birds cannot afford to relax their vigilance against predators.
~ on the part of sb Guaranteeing the safety of students requires continued vigilance on the part of teachers. 
in The group is not vigorous enough in its opposition to the proposals. 
Roman, Spanish, etc. 
in a/the ~ staying in his Spanish holiday villa 
pantomime He wore a black cloak, like a pantomime villain. 
cast sb as She seems to have cast me as the villain in her latest emotional upheaval.
play He has played villains in most of his films.
catch, nail The police still haven't nailed the villain. 
the villain of the piece/story He changed his story to make his wife appear the villain of the piece. 
blatant, clear, flagrant The attack on civilians is a flagrant violation of the peace agreement.
commit The army was accused of committing violations against the accord.
be, constitute This action constitutes a violation of international law. 
in ~ of There is plenty of evidence that her actions were in violation of an earlier contract.
a bit, fairly, pretty, quite, rather She started to get a bit violent.
gratuitously The film is contrived, sentimental and gratuitously violent.
to, towards He was violent towards his wife on several occasions. 
almost He felt a strong, almost violent, dislike for the stranger.
Aids, flu, hepatitis, herpes, HIV, measles, etc.
pass (on), spread, transmit An infected person can pass the virus to others.
attack sb/sth The virus attacks a variety of cells in the body.
remain, stay The scars remained visible all her life.
leave sth, make sth We cut the trees down to make the lake visible from the house. 
all too, clearly, easily, highly, obviously, particularly, plainly, readily, very His relief was all too visible. The election poster was clearly visible from the street. Italy has a highly visible environmental movement.
fully, quite The sea was now out, leaving the wreck fully visible. Ellie's quite visible embarrassment
just The mountains were just visible, dusky and black.
barely, hardly, scarcely The low, flat boats were barely visible.
half, partially She stood, half visible in the dim light.
dimly, faintly A figure was dimly visible in the evening gloom.
immediately Women are advised to wait where they are not immediately visible to approaching traffic.
to Its contents were visible to all of them. 
constant, frequent She enjoyed the frequent visits of her grandchildren.
forthcoming, impending The prime minister has been briefed in preparation for his forthcoming visit to China.
exchange, reciprocal, return Exchange visits between company and school have kept the project going. They came to visit last week, and we'll pay them a return visit in the autumn.
personal Following her letter of complaint, she received a personal visit from the store manager.
domiciliary, home You should receive a home visit from your midwife within a month.
courtesy, goodwill While on holiday in Italy, the prime minister paid a courtesy visit to his opposite number in Rome.
go on, make, pay sb, undertake We used to go on school visits to museums and historical buildings. How many doctors are still able to make home visits? Pay us a visit next time you're in town.
look forward to I'd been looking forward to my cousin's visit for ages.
cut short He was forced to cut short a visit to North America.
prolong He offered her a drink to try to prolong her visit.
announce We received a letter announcing a visit from government inspectors.
be (well) worth If you're staying in Rome, Ostia is well worth a visit. 
mark sth, signal sth The visit signalled the normalization of relations between the two countries. 
during/on a/the ~ On one of her regular visits home, she told her parents she was engaged.
~ from We had a visit from somebody collecting for charity.
first-time First-time visitors to Spain are often surprised by how late people eat.
potential, prospective, would-be The latest crime figures are likely to put off prospective visitors to the city.
health The baby's weight is monitored by the health visitor. 
get, have, receive Do you get many visitors?
expect The house was tidy and I could see he was expecting visitors.
entertain The front room was used mainly for entertaining visitors.
attract, bring (in) The festival brings 5,000 visitors to the town every year.
interest The town has much to interest the visitor.
deter The lack of facilities in the town may deter the casual visitor.
admit The college only admits visitors in organized groups. 
come, flock, turn up Visitors flocked to see the show. 
centre Pick up a free map of the town from the visitor centre. 
from Visitors from Ireland will find much that reminds them of home.
to These nutrients are absolutely vital to good health. 
take The doctor told me to take vitamins regularly. 
contain Most foods contain vitamin E.
be rich in Fish is rich in vitamins and minerals.
deficiency Vitamin C deficiency can ultimately lead to scurvy. 
extensive, large, rich, wide English has a rich vocabulary and literature. Try to develop a wide vocabulary.
acquire, learn Learners of languages acquire vocabulary through practice.
build, develop, enlarge, enrich, expand, extend, increase, widen This book has been designed to help you expand your vocabulary.
enter The word ‘think tank’ entered the vocabulary (= became part of the language) in the 1960s.
use Specialized vocabulary is used in all the major disciplines. 
not in sb's vocabulary The word ‘failure’is not in his vocabulary (= for him, failure does not exist). 
find She struggled for years to find her true vocation.
follow, pursue He is desperate to pursue his vocation as an artist.
miss She feels that she missed her vocation by not working with children. 
for She seems to have a vocation for healing.
a sense of vocation This is a job that demands a sense of vocation. 
beautiful, fine, good, lovely, pleasant, sweet She has a beautiful singing voice.
cracked, rasping, slurred I could tell from his slurred voice that he'd been drinking.
inner An inner voice told him that what he had done was wrong.
hear I could hear voices in the next room.
raise She's a teacher who never has to raise her voice to discipline the children.
drop, lower She dropped her voice to a whisper. You're shouting?please lower your voice.
project Try to project your voice so that the people at the back of the room can hear you.
lose She's lost her voice and won't be able to sing tonight.
find He swallowed nervously as he tried to find his voice.
put on She put on a silly voice as she imitated her boss. 
go up, rise His voice rose in angry protest.
die away, drop, fade, tail away/off, trail away/off ‘So he won't come … ’ her voice trailed off in disappointment.
be filled/tinged with sth Her voice was filled with emotion.
deepen, harden, soften, thicken His voice suddenly thickened with emotion.
echo Her voice echoed through the silent house.
whisper ‘Be quiet!’ a voice whispered in his ear.
call (out), cry (out) ‘Who is it?’ a female voice called out.
scream, shout She was dimly aware of voices shouting.
cut through sth, pierce sth His deep voice cut through the silence.
break, crack His voice broke with emotion. His voice broke (= became a deep, man's voice) when he was 14.
falter, quaver, shake, tremble, waver Her voice shook with fear.
drone (on) The flat, unemotional voice droned on. 
in a/your ~ ‘Get out!’ she shouted in a shrill voice. There was fury in his voice as he answered her. 
at the top of your voice I was shouting at the top of my voice but she couldn't hear me.
a babble/hum/murmur of voices They could hear a loud babble of voices coming from the crowded bar.
in good voice The home fans were in good voice (= making a loud noise) before the match. She was in good voice (= singing well) at the concert tonight.
keep your voice down Please keep your voice down so as not to wake the children.
keep your voice level/steady He managed to keep his voice steady despite his feelings of panic.
tone of voice ‘Do you have to speak to me in that tone of voice?’ she said sadly. 
critical, dissenting Dissenting voices at the newspaper are very rare.
powerful Powerful voices in the Senate are determined to bring down the president.
find Refugees have been unable to find a voice in politics.
add, lend Many senior politicians have lent their voices to the campaign.
give The magazine gave voice to hundreds of oppressed factory workers.
speak with one voice The teachers speak with one voice when they demand an end to the cuts. 
fill It seemed that nothing could fill the aching black void left by Rachel's death. 
erupt An active volcano may erupt at any time. 
mains, supply Most house lighting runs at the full mains voltage of 240 volts.
apply A voltage is then applied across the cell electrodes. 
at a ~ The motor operates at low voltages. 
completely, entirely, purely The organization is run on a purely voluntary basis.
kindly Barbara Forrest has kindly volunteered to lead a guided walk to Bolton Abbey. 
as We volunteered as witnesses.
for I volunteered for service in the Air Force. 
democratic, direct, free Members of Parliament will have a free vote on this bill.
transferable The single transferable vote system is it since women have had the vote?
popular The law was ratified by popular vote.
protest He lost the election because of the protest vote.
block The union wants the system of block votes to continue.
have, put sth to the, take We should put the resolution to the vote. Let's take a vote on the issue.
have The chairperson always has the casting vote.
cast, record (formal) You can cast your vote at the local polling station. 50% of the eligible voters recorded their vote.
gain, get, obtain, poll, receive, secure, win Our candidate polled only 10% of the vote.
count Votes are still being counted. 
go to sb/sth My vote will go to the party that addresses crime.
fall The party's vote fell by 6%.
by ~ The bill was passed by a single vote. Members are elected by direct vote.
a vote of confidence/no confidence The government received a massive vote of confidence from the electorate.
a vote of thanks A special vote of thanks went to the organizer, Tim Woodhouse. > Special page at MEETING 
have How many years 
eligible, registered Only a quarter of registered voters actually voted in the election.
Conservative, Labour, etc. 
choose sb, favour sb, pick sb, prefer sb In this election, voters chose candidates who promised economic security.
participate in sth, turn out More than two million voters participated in the election.
turnout Voter turnout was very low.
intimidation The Opposition alleged voter intimidation by the army. 
final She left the convent before taking her final vows. 
make, take He made a vow to avenge his father's death.
keep She kept her vow of silence until she died.
break Nothing will persuade me to break this vow.
exchange The couple exchanged vows at the altar.
neutral This neutral vowel is known as ‘schwa’.
demonstrate, expose, highlight, show (up) The earthquake highlighted the vulnerability of elevated highways.
exploit, take advantage of The gang had taken advantage of the immigrants' vulnerability. 
circle, hover, soar, wheel Vultures circled overhead as the lions fed.
gently The night air wafted gently over them.
around, in, up A scent of honey wafted up from the hives. 
across, down, from, into, over, through, up Spicy smells wafted through the air. 
inadequate, low, meagre, small He busked to supplement his meagre wages.
real If money wages remain constant and price levels rise, real wages fall.
earn She earns a good wage at the factory.
live on How can you live on such a low wage?
increase, keep up, push up, raise Full employment pushed up wages.
claim The union submitted a wage claim for a 9% rise.
controls, freeze, restraint The government promised greater tax cuts in return for continued wage restraints.
packet He got his first wage packet at fourteen years old. 
distant We could just hear the distant wail of a siren. 
with a ~ With a wail he threw himself on the bed and buried his face in the pillow.
~ of She gave a wail of anguish. > Note at SOUND 
about/around/round the/your ~ She wore a broad belt about her waist. 
from the waist down/up A large towel covered him from the waist down.
stripped to the waist, waist-deep/-high Where we were standing, the lake was waist-deep. 
34-inch, etc. These jeans have a 32-inch waist. 
endless, long We had a long wait to see the doctor.
face, have The accused faces an agonizing wait while the jury considers its verdict. 
be worth the wait The dress was so beautiful when it arrived that it was well worth the wait. 
passing She ordered a large vodka and tonic from a passing waiter.
hovering (literary, disapproving), obsequious He didn't fancy spending hours in the restaurant, surrounded by hovering waiters. 
beckon (to), call (over), signal (to), summon (over), wave over He casually waved over the waitress and settled the bill. 
arrive with sth, bring (sb) sth, serve (sb) sth A waitress arrived with the wine they had ordered. 
service Lunch is a buffet meal, while dinner is waiter service. 
catch the waiter/waitress's eye I tried to catch the waiter's eye to ask for our bill. > Note at JOB 
brief, little, short We took a brief walk around the old quarter.
good, long, long-distance, marathon It's a good (= fairly long) walk to the town centre, so I usually cycle. We went for a long walk after breakfast. He's done several long-distance walks for charity.
three-minute, five minutes', etc. It's a five-minute walk from the lecture theatre to the restaurant. We live just a few minutes' walk from the station.
brisk, vigorous The doctor advised a brisk walk every day.
solitary She used to enjoy solitary walks along the cliffs.
guided We went on a guided walk of the city in the afternoon.
charity, sponsored She's doing a 200-mile sponsored walk in aid of cancer research.
do, go for, go on, have, take The book contains circular walks you can do in half a day. We'll go for a walk before lunch. We went on a ten-mile walk along the coast.
take sb/sth for She takes her dog for a walk every evening.
break They broke their walk at a pub by the river.
take sb/sth The walk takes two hours. The walk takes you past a lot of interesting buildings. 
on a/the ~ He met her on one of his Sunday afternoon walks.
within (a) ~ All amenities are within an easy walk of the hotel.
a walk around I had a little walk around to calm my nerves. 
do, have She did a silly walk to amuse her friends. He has a mincing walk, fast with short steps. 
move off at, set off at The horses set off at a walk. 
retaining They built a retaining wall around the pond.
load-bearing If a load-bearing wall is weakened, the building could fall down.
climb (over), scale The burglars must have scaled the side wall.
cover, line, paint, paper, plaster She covered her walls with pictures of film stars. 
against a/the ~ She leant against the wall.
behind a/the ~ Nobody can see behind the wall.
on a/the ~ She hung the photos on the wall.
at will, freely The cattle are allowed to wander freely.
just, simply Simply wandering is a pleasure in itself.
far, further (afield) One day she wandered further afield.
about, across, along, around/round, away, back, in, off, out, over He just wandered in one day and asked for a job. 
be free to Visitors are free to wander through the gardens and woods.
allow sb/sth to, let sb/sth How could you let him wander off like that? 
across, all over, along, among, around, into, out of, round, through, towards Don't go wandering all over the house! He wandered into a bar and ordered a drink. 
find sb wandering They found him wandering around aimlessly. 
begin to His attention was beginning to wander.
allow sth to, let sth Lissa let her mind wander a little. 
from, to My thoughts wandered from the exam questions to my interview the next day. 
for ~ of Refugees are dying for want of proper health care.
in ~ Thousands of children are living in want. 
all-out, full-scale, total Six years of total war had left no citizen untouched.
be in, fight in My grandfather fought in two world wars.
fight, make, wage The two countries fought a short but bloody war. The Spartans were persuaded to make war on Athens. The terrorists were charged with waging war against the state.
go to The country went to war in 1914.
continue, drag on, go on, last, progress, rage (on) The war raged for nearly two years.
effort Every available resource went towards the war effort.
record Both candidates have distinguished war records.
machine the Soviet war machine 
between the ~s (= between the First and Second World Wars), in (a/the) ~ killed in war He took part in the Vietnam War.
~ against/with the war against the French a war against drug abuse
~ between war between Iran and Iraq
~ on The US declared war on Japan.
~ with a trade war with the United States 
the horrors of war The country had just emerged from the horrors of civil war.
in a state of war, in time/times of war In times of war, troops were billeted in the mill.
on a war footing The army had been placed on a war footing.
the brink of war The crisis took Europe to the brink of war.
the outbreak of war At the outbreak of war, most children were evacuated to the countryside.
a theatre of war These aircraft are designed to take troops and weapons to any theatre of war in the shortest time possible.
game He is chief game warden of the Masai Mara game reserve in Kenya.
dog > Note at JOB 
open Rivalry between football fans developed into open warfare.
rapidly, soon We soon warmed up in front of the fire.
suddenly His voice suddenly warmed.
through, up Return the bowl to the heat to warm through. 
bluntly The chancellor bluntly warned the Cabinet to axe public spending or face higher taxes.
softly ‘Don't, ’ he warned softly.
specifically We were specifically warned against buying the house.
duly Having been duly warned that I would get nowhere with my application, I went right ahead and applied anyway.
constantly, repeatedly My mother constantly warned me not to go into teaching.
had better, have to, must, should I must warn you that some of these animals are extremely dangerous. I thought I should warn her about it.
try to I did try to warn you.
fail to She claimed doctors had failed to warn her of the risks involved. 
about No one had warned us about the unbearable heat.
against We were warned against drinking the local water.
of The report warns of the dangers of smoking. They warned us of the risks involved. 
be warned You will get better?but be warned, it may be a long process. 
arrest, death, search The king refused to sign the death warrant for his old friend.
authorize, grant, issue, serve, sign The commissioner has issued a warrant for her arrest. The police served a warrant on him.
execute Police who executed a search warrant found a substantial amount of stolen property on the premises. 
without a ~ In certain circumstances, police may enter premises without a warrant.
specific We can not give a specific warranty for the work done on your property.
come with The computer comes with a year's warranty on all parts. 
cover sth Corrosion is not covered by the warranty.
under ~ Is your car still under warranty?
~ on The warranty on my watch ran out just before it broke. 
breach of warranty He took legal action against the company for breach of warranty. 
lose Germany lost two warships during this attack. 
aboard/on/on board a ~ He is serving on a warship in the Pacific. 
have He had a quick wash and shave.
do I'm doing a dark wash (= washing all the dark clothes together).
could do with, need That car could do with a good wash. 
in the ~ (= being washed or waiting to be washed) Your shirt's in the wash. 
run How often do you run your washing machine? 
natural Voluntary redundancies and natural wastage will cut staff numbers to the required level.
muscle Patients need exercise to prevent muscle wastage. 
allow for Buy more paper than you need to allow for wastage. 
not) entirely, (not) totally In the end her efforts were not entirely wasted.
just, simply You're just wasting your breath. She never listens.
can't afford to, not want to He didn't want to waste valuable time in idle gossip.
be/seem a shame to It seems a shame to waste this good food.
not be going to I'm not going to waste any more time on the problem. 
on Don't waste your money on a hotel room. 
no time to waste Hurry up?there's no time to waste! 
carefully, closely, intently She watched the man closely to see where he would go.
anxiously, helplessly, warily She watched helplessly as her husband was dragged away.
just I love just watching the world go by. 
could only They could only watch in silence as their possessions were taken away.
pause to, stop to They stopped to watch the procession go by.
let sb He let me watch while he assembled the model.
make sb The women were made to watch while their children were slaughtered. 
for We watched for any sign of change in the weather.
from They watched from an upstairs window.
in She watched in astonishment as he smashed the machine to pieces.
with He watched with great interest how she coaxed the animals towards her. 
sit/stand and watch She stood and watched them walk off down the road. 
brackish, salt These fish will quickly die in salt water.
salty Abscesses should be bathed in warm salty water.
salted Cook the pasta in plenty of boiling salted water.
flowing, running the fast-flowing water of the river All the rooms have hot and cold running water.
surface The surface water made the road treacherous for drivers.
tap Avoid drinking the tap water when you first arrive in the country.
slosh, spill, splash, spray, sprinkle, spurt, squirt Don't slosh too much water on the floor when you're having a bath. The burst pipe was spurting water everywhere.
turn off/on They turned the water off for a few hours to do some work on the pipes. 
gush, spurt Brown water gushed out of the rusty old tap.
drip, trickle There was water dripping from a hole in the ceiling.
lap, slosh, spill, splash, spray, squirt Water had got into the boat and was sloshing about under our feet.
table Building can be difficult where the water table lies close to the surface.
calm, placid, still the calm waters of Lake Como
dangerous, safe At last the boat reached safer waters.
flood The flood water had caused tremendous damage.
rising They climbed a tree to escape the rising water.
by ~ Many goods were transported by water in the last century.
in the ~ I saw something large floating in the water.
on the ~ The swan landed gracefully on the water.
through the ~ The boat cut effortlessly through the water.
under the ~ An abandoned village lies under the water of the reservoir. 
the water's edge She crouched at the water's edge to wash her hands. 
Antarctic, Arctic
Atlantic, Pacific, etc.
Japanese, etc.
uncharted The ship had drifted into uncharted waters. 
in/into … ~ The submarine had strayed into Russian waters. 
divide sth Darwin's theory of evolution was a watershed dividing the old way of thinking from the new. 
between The 19th century marked a watershed between the country's agricultural past and its industrial future.
~ for The granting of the vote represented a watershed for the rights of women.
~ in With the strike, a historical watershed in the development of the trade union movement was reached. 
frantically, wildly They stood by the side of the road and waved frantically.
vaguely He waved a hand vaguely in the air.
about/around, aside, back, on, through She waved cheerfully and he waved back. The guards waved us on. 
turn and/to He turned to wave to his mother. 
at We waved at the people on the shore.
to They waved to us as we passed. She waved him to a seat. 
convenient, easy, effective, efficient, good, ideal, practical, quick, useful The best way to open it is with pliers.
important The most important way to stop accidental drownings is by education.
subtle There is no subtle way to tell someone that you no longer want them.
possible They've explored every possible way of dealing with the problem.
funny, mysterious, odd, strange God works in mysterious ways.
hard He learned about the dangers of drugs the hard way.
winning The team got back to their winning ways with a 2?1 victory. 
number There are a number of ways to overcome this problem. 
have Fate has a way of changing the best of plans.
get into, get out of The women had got into the way of going up on the deck every evening.
change, mend Your father is unlikely to change his ways now.
be set in Grandma is so set in her ways. 
in a/the ~ Can I help you in any way? 
in a big way He then started spending money in a big way.
in every way They're different in every way.
in more ways than one They're alike in more ways than one.
in its/your own way He was attractive in his own way.
a kind/sort of way He was a handsome man in a sinister sort of way.
(in) one way or another Most people are creative in one way or another.
a way of life the beliefs and practices of the Hindu way of life
ways and means Newspapers have ways and means of getting hold of secret information. 
own, separate (figurative) He's always gone his own way when it comes to design.
covered We walked along the covered way to the science building. 
go I'm going your way, so we can walk together. 
along the ~ We saw a dreadful accident along the way.
in the/your ~ There were several rocks in the way.
out of the/your ~ Could you please get those boxes out of my way?
on the/your ~ We stopped for a snack on the way here.
out of the/your ~ The supermarket is a bit out of my way.
~ across The way across the fields is longer but pleasanter.
~ from, ~ out of Can you tell me the way out of here?
~ through The way through the woods is quicker.
take the easy way out He took the easy way out and paid someone to write the article for him.
the way back/down/forward/here/home/in/out/over/there/up We stopped for a drink on the way home. 
both Look both ways before crossing the road.
wrong They've gone the 
go Which way did she go?
lead, point, show He showed us the way.
walk Walk this way, please.
look He looked my way, but didn't seem to recognize me. 
the … way round/up Try it the other way round. Which way up does this box go? 
come, go We had to go a long way before we found a telephone box. (figurative) The study of genes has come a long way in recent years. 
from, ~ to It's quite a way from my house to the shops. 
all the way This bus doesn't go all the way so you'll have to change.
quite a/some way, a … way ahead/away/off Your birthday is still some way off. 
fatally The regime was fatally weakened by the unrest and violence.
gradually, progressively Central authority has been progressively weakened since the outbreak of the civil war.
serve to The division of Germany had served to weaken the party.
economic, financial, material, mineral, natural The country's strong economy was built on its mineral wealth. The region possesses a vast natural wealth, particularly of timber.
lose He lost his wealth through poor investment.
have Switzerland has an enormous wealth of beautiful old buildings. 
of … ~ She is a woman of untold wealth. 
off They have gradually weaned him off the drugs.
in ~ Silk shirts always feel soft and light in wear.
with ~ New shoes usually get more comfortable with wear. 
years of wear This is a quality garment which should give years of wear. 
withstand This flooring can withstand years of hard wear. 
with ~ The stairs had become slippery with wear. 
centuries, years, etc. of wear The cathedral steps were polished smooth by centuries of wear. 
show The tyres were beginning to show wear.
guarantee The flooring comes with a 20-year wear guarantee. 
on This new oil reduces wear on the engine. 
succumb to She succumbed to weariness and went to bed. 
with ~ I had slept badly and felt numb with weariness.
in ~ His eyes were half closing in weariness.
~ in He detected a note of weariness in her voice. 
brave Deciding to brave the weather, he grabbed his umbrella and went out. 
clear (up), improve, let up, warm up We'll go just as soon as this weather lets up.
hold out, keep up If the weather holds out we could go swimming later.
threaten Bad weather threatened.
break, deteriorate, worsen It was warm and sunny until the weekend, but then the weather broke.
become sth, get sth, turn sth Next day the weather turned cold.
close in, set in The weather closed in and the climbers had to take shelter. I wanted to mend the roof before the cold weather set in.
allow, permit I sat outside as often as the weather allowed. We're having a barbecue next Saturday, weather permitting. (You cannot say ‘weather allowing’.)
prevent sth Stormy weather prevented any play in today's tennis.
conditions The plane crashed into the sea in adverse weather conditions.
patterns, system the effects of global warming on the world's weather patterns The Atlantic weather systems had been kind.
a change in the weather We hadn't bargained for such a dramatic change in the weather.
in all weathers The lifeboat crews go out in all weathers.
the vagaries of the weather She packed all kinds of clothes to cope with the vagaries of the English weather.
whatever the weather He swims in the sea every day, whatever the weather. 
specially The carpet was specially woven to commemorate the 1,000th anniversary of the cathedral's foundation.
skilfully (often figurative) Hall skilfully weaves the historical research into a gripping narrative.
inextricably, intricately (both figurative) The whisky is inextricably woven into Scotland's history, customs and culture.
into A pattern is woven into the fabric. 
official, unofficial the official website of Liverpool FC
search I was searching this history website for something about Alexander the Great.
build, create, design, develop, make, set up We show you how to make your own website in ten simple steps.
be/go down There were so many visitors to the website that it went down. 
address, URL
on a/the ~ You can find details of all our products on our website. 
a link to a website This page includes lots of links to other websites you may find interesting. > Special page at COMPUTER 
against, behind, between, into, under She wedged a chair firmly under the door handle. 
wedge sth in place/position, wedge sth open/shut Someone had wedged the door open with a brick. 
be bursting for, need, want Mummy, I need a wee.
go for I'm going for a wee. 
consecutive, successive They won 1?0 for the fourth consecutive week.
entire, full, whole It's the first time for ages I've done a full week's work.
quiet It's been a very quiet week for me.
3-day, 40-hour, etc. He earns enough money to work a four-day week. 
spend We spent two weeks in France last summer.
elapse, go by, pass The week passed very slowly. 
by the ~ They're paid by the week.
during/in the ~ I go out most weekends, but rarely during the week.
for a ~ I haven't seen him for weeks.
in a ~ We'll be back in a week.
in ~s It hasn't rained in weeks.
over/under a ~ It's over a week since she rang me.
per ~ How much do you earn per week?
within a/the ~ I'll have the report finished within the next couple of weeks. 
a day of the week Which day of the week was it? 
openly, unashamedly The people wept openly when his death was announced.
inconsolably, uncontrollably His grandmother was weeping uncontrollably.
at He wanted to weep at the unfairness of it all.
for I felt I could have wept for joy. weeping for someone who has died
over We had wept over the death of our parents.
with She almost wept with happiness. 
break down and weep Several of the soldiers broke down and wept.
weep and wail The mourners followed the funeral procession, weeping and wailing.
sheer (figurative) The sheer weight of visitors is destroying this tourist attraction. 
bear, carry, support The arch bears the weight of the bridge above.
bend/buckle/collapse/crack/sag/shift/sink beneath/under, give way beneath/under Many buildings collapsed under the weight of rain-soaked ash and mud. (figurative) He was buckling under the weight of his responsibilities.
creak/groan beneath/under She tried to be quiet, but the stairs creaked under her weight.
stagger/strain beneath/under The boy was staggering beneath the weight of a pile of boxes. 
in ~ It is about 76 kilos in weight. 
target I should soon be down to my target weight of 70 kilos.
watch I won't have any cake?I have to watch my weight.
lose, reduce, shed He's lost a lot of weight.
bear, carry, hold, support, stand, take I was worried that the branch wouldn't take my weight.
put, rest The doctor told me not to put my weight on this ankle for a month.
shift, transfer He nervously shifted his weight from foot to foot.
distribute Stand with your legs apart and your weight evenly distributed.
hurl, throw He threw his weight at the door and it burst open. 
fluctuate People's body weight can fluctuate during the day. 
lift She did circuit training and lifted weights to build her fitness. 
dead With difficulty she managed to pull his dead weight onto the bed.
leaden (figurative) A leaden weight lay on her heart as she waved him goodbye. 
lift Heavy weights should be lifted with a straight back. 
due, sufficient Environmental considerations were given due weight in making the decision.
sheer How can you ignore the sheer weight of medical opinion?
economic, financial, intellectual, political America's economic weight 
attach, give, place They attach too much weight to academic achievement.
carry Her opinion seemed to carry little weight in the company.
add, lend The new evidence added considerable weight to the prosecution's case. Sir Leon lent his weight to the Tory campaign yesterday. 
put/throw your weight behind sth, weight of numbers The rebels were defeated by sheer weight of numbers. 
be, feel, seem, sound I started to feel quite weird. 
a bit, a little, pretty, quite, rather It all sounds a bit weird to me. 
weird and wonderful Some of their clothes were really weird and wonderful. 
big, enthusiastic, friendly, great, rapturous, rousing, special, tumultuous, warm The audience gave the band a rousing welcome.
broad, general The proposals have been given a broad welcome by green campaigners.
hero's She got a hero's welcome on her return from the Olympics. 
await A warm welcome awaits you at this family-run hotel.
outstay/overstay your Sensing that he had outstayed his welcome, he quickly said his goodbyes and left. 
in ~ She held out her arms in welcome.
~ from The proposal received a cautious welcome from the Opposition.
~ to A big welcome to our special guest, Sir James Greenan. They received a cold welcome to their new home. 
improve, promote The government's policies will promote the welfare of all citizens. 
fraud, scrounger The new government promised to clamp down on welfare scroungers. 
economic, financial, material VERB + WELL-BEING contribute to, ensure, foster, promote A better water supply would contribute dramatically to the villagers' well-being.
health and well-being, a sense of well-being She was filled with a sense of well-being. 
thoroughly Wet your hair thoroughly before applying the shampoo.
with Wet the towel slightly with warm water. 
manoeuvre Anthony manoeuvred his wheelchair out from behind his desk.
be confined to He's been confined to a wheelchair since the accident. 
by ~ In town, she gets about by wheelchair.
in a/the ~ It's hard to get around if you're in a wheelchair. 
catch, get, detect I caught the whiff of whisky on his breath. (figurative) Journalists caught a whiff of scandal and pursued the actress relentlessly. 
at the faintest/first/merest whiff of sth (figurative) He always retreated emotionally at the first whiff of conflict. 
slightest The bird's nest is vulnerable to the slightest whim of the weather.
political Funding is subject to political whim. 
suffer For years she had suffered her husband's whims. 
at (sb's) ~ They seem to be able to change the rules of the game at whim. Slaves could be bought and sold at the whim of their masters.
on a ~ He bought the jacket on a whim, having seen it by chance in a shop window. 
your every whim The child's parents pandered to his every whim. 
softly The dog whimpered softly.
with The boy was whimpering with pain. 
whimper like a child He stirred in her arms, whimpering like a child. 
faintly, softly The engines whined softly in the background.
soundly He was taken back to the jail and soundly whipped. 
gently, lightly Lightly whip the egg whites and add them to the mixture.
neat, straight I'll have my whisky straight, please.
blended, Irish (spelt whiskey), malt, Scotch, single-malt 
dash, drop, nip He added a dash of whisky to his coffee.
measure, shot, tot She poured herself a large tot of whisky.
drink Do you drink whisky?
have He had a whisky on the rocks.
chaser He ordered a beer with a whisky chaser (= a small glass of whisky drunk after a beer).
fiercely, urgently ‘Come on,’he whispered urgently.
back ‘Yes, ’ I whispered back. 
can/could only He could only whisper in reply.
hear sb She heard him whisper her name. 
about I felt that everyone was whispering about me.
against ‘Hush, ’ he whispered against her hair.
through ‘No, ’ he whispered through gritted teeth.
to ‘Let's go,’ she whispered to Anne. 
whisper sth in/into sb's ear, whisper sweet nothings He held her and whispered sweet nothings in her ear. 
through your teeth Norma looked at the parcel and whistled softly through her teeth.
at Men whistled at her in the street.
in James whistled in amazement.
to William whistled to me from a distance. 
egg Whisk the egg whites until stiff. 
the white of an egg Use the whites of two eggs. 
fling sth, open sth, spread sth He stood up and flung wide the door to the study. Open your mouth really wide. He spread his hands wide in appeal. 
with Their eyes were wide with fear. 
of Her shot fell just wide of the target. 
wide of the mark (figurative) (= not accurate) Their predictions turned out to be very wide of the mark. 
among Illiteracy is widespread among the poor. 
narrow The fabric is only available in a narrow width.
have The windows have a width of six feet.
measure Measure the width of each side.
decrease, narrow (to), reduce The snow had narrowed the width of the road to a single track. The road narrows to a width of just four metres.
fitting The boots are available in a choice of width fittings. 
across the ~ The pattern goes across the full width of the material.
in ~ The car is 1.775m in width. 
have on, sport, wear Do you think she was wearing a wig?
perch The wig seemed to perch on his head. 
in a/the ~ Who's that man in the wig? 
transform They transformed the wilderness into a garden.
explore They set out to explore the earth's last great wilderness, Antarctica. 
years (figurative) His wilderness years (= when he was out of politics and the public eye) in the 1990s were spent in North America. 
in the ~ We were hopelessly lost in the wilderness. 
have I'm no good at slimming. The trouble is, I've got no will power.
take It took all his will power to stay in and study.
summon He tried to summon the will power to get out of bed.
by ~ She managed to finish the race by sheer will power. 
appear, be, prove, seem They appear willing to talk to us. 
more than, only too, really, very I'm more than willing to get involved.
perfectly, quite He's quite willing to do the same for you.
enough He seemed willing enough to listen.
always She is always willing to help.
begin to Some of the leaves were beginning to wilt. 
in The plants will wilt in direct sunlight.
under By half-time, the team was wilting under the pressure.
with The passengers were visibly wilting with the heat and movement of the bus. 
comfortably, convincingly, easily, hands down, handsomely, outright The French team won hands down.
narrowly She narrowly won the first race.
duly He duly won, but was then sidelined by a leg injury.
deserve to We didn't deserve to win?we played very badly.
be expected to, be tipped to, expect to The actress is tipped to win an Oscar for her performance.
be going to Who do you think is going to win?
fail to The far right party failed to win a single seat.
against They stand a good chance of winning against their league rivals.
at I never win at tennis.
by She won the race by 40 metres.
on The match was eventually won on penalties. 
be capable of winning (sth) There are a lot of teams capable of winning the title.
succeed in winning sth He succeeded in winning their confidence. 
fierce, gale-force, high, stiff, strong, terrible Rain and high winds are forecast. There was a stiff wind blowing.
biting, bitter, brisk, chill, cold, icy The icy wind cut right through us.
fair, favourable, good They set sail the next morning with a fair wind.
adverse Adverse winds swept the boat off course.
head, tail A tail wind made the ride home very relaxing.
breath There wasn't a breath of wind in the still air. 
blow, blow up, come, cut through sb/sth, sweep (through) sth The wind came from the west. A fierce wind swept through the countryside.
howl, moan, roar, whistle The wind roared through the tunnel.
buffet sth, rattle sth, whip sth (up) The wind whipped up the surface of the lake.
abate, die down, drop Let's wait until the wind drops before setting sail.
change The wind suddenly changed and began blowing from the north. 
against the ~ We were rowing against the wind.
into the ~ We were sailing into the wind.
out of ~ Let's shelter out of the wind. 
get, have She had an unexpected windfall of a thousand pounds when a cousin died. 
clean, scrape, wipe She scraped the windscreen free of ice.
clear, demist She switched the wipers on to clear the windscreen. 
on a/the ~ I came back to find a parking ticket on the windscreen.
through a/the ~ Bright evening sunlight glared through the windscreen. 
fore, front The beetle's fore wings are small and are not used in flight.
butterfly, chicken, etc. the patterns on butterfly wings First, fry the chicken wings in the oil until they begin to brown. 
flap, flutter It flapped its wings and flew off.
clip (often figurative) Pete felt he had had his wings clipped when his driving licence was confiscated.
grow, sprout I wish I could sprout wings and fly away. 
on a/the ~ It had white markings on its wings.
under a/the ~ The young birds were under the mother bird's wing. (figurative) Simon's uncle had taken him under his wing. 
demolish, destroy, pull down A bomb destroyed the east wing. 
in a/the ~ Our rooms were in the west wing. 
damage, dent The nearside wing was damaged in the accident.
in a/the ~ There was a dent in one wing. 
on a/the ~ They're on the left wing of the Labour Party. 
broadly He winked broadly at Lucinda.
conspiratorially, saucily, wickedly She winked saucily at Jack.
see sb I saw him wink at her. 
at She winked at me, and I winked back. 
early, late, mid-(also midwinter) It was impossible to walk the route in midwinter.
Olympics, sports > Note at SEASON(for more collocates) 
be going, be on Cars were coming past with their wipers going. 
correctly, properly You should check that the socket is correctly wired.
in, up She was wired up to a heart monitor. 
for Many homes were wired for lighting only.
into, to The Christmas tree lights are all wired to one plug. 
accepted, conventional, established, folk, popular, prevailing, received, traditional Conventional wisdom has it that riots only ever happen in cities.
street, worldly He is too lacking in worldly wisdom to be a politician.
ancient A bridge between ancient wisdom and modern insight is now being built.
doubt, have doubts about, question Many commentators doubted the political wisdom of introducing a new tax.
seek Those who seek wisdom at the shrine will find it.
impart Do you have any wisdom to impart on this subject?
prove The latest unemployment figures prove the wisdom of the government's policy. 
a fount/source of wisdom Consultants are too often seen as the source of all wisdom.
in sb's (infinite) wisdom (ironic) In their infinite wisdom, the council closed the swimming pool for the school holidays.
the pursuit of wisdom She devoted her life to the pursuit of wisdom.
wit and wisdom He entertained the audience for two hours with his wit and wisdom.
with the wisdom of hindsight It's easy enough to see what we should have done, with the wisdom of hindsight.
words of wisdom The former world champion imparted a few words of wisdom to the young runners. 
dying, last He was denied his dying wish to be reconciled with his son.
death Freud's theory of the death wish
express, make known She has expressed a wish to visit the Houses of Parliament.
fulfill She fulfilled her deepest wish when she flew solo for the first time.
get She's always wanted to be an actress, and I'm sure she'll get her wish.
be responsive to, consider, honour, respect, take into account It is vital for schools to respect the wishes of parents.
carry out, comply with, implement, meet We need to update our equipment if we are to meet customers' wishes.
obey She flew into a rage if the staff didn't obey her wishes.
disregard, flout, go against, ignore, override, ride roughshod over The committee rode roughshod over the wishes of union members.
reflect The change to the constitution reflects the wishes of the people who voted in the referendum. 
list Draw up a wish list, defining the requirements for your ideal home. 
against sb's ~s Her father will not speak to her, because she married against his wishes.
in sb's ~ In his wish to be as helpful as possible, he was forever asking her what she wanted.
in accordance with sb's ~s In accordance with his wishes, his ashes were scattered at sea.
have, make When you see a black cat, you have to make a wish.
be allowed, get If you're the one who finds the hidden box, you get a wish.
grant The good fairy granted her three wishes. 
come true Lo and behold, on Christmas Day their wishes came true. 
best, good Give my best wishes to Alison. 
with ~ (at the end of a letter) With best wishes for a happy birthday.
~ for Every good wish for your future happiness together. 
have He had a dry wit. 
native She had to use all her native wit to convince the police. 
have I hope he's got the wit to take the key with him. 
beyond the wit of man (= impossible) It should not be beyond the wit of man to resolve this dispute 
gather, recover She couldn't seem to gather her wits and tell us what had happened.
blunt, dull Living alone in the country had dulled his wits.
a battle of wits The strike developed into a battle of wits between management and workers.
have/keep your wits about you They do tough interviews so you'll need to have your wits about you.
pit your wits against sb Celebrity teams pit their wits against each other in this lively quiz show. 
ignominious The UN were faced with an ignominious withdrawal or a long-term military presence.
call for, demand The party is calling for the phased withdrawal of troops from the island.
make The police were forced to make a tactical withdrawal. 
from She made a withdrawal of £250 from her bank account. 
from She was still suffering withdrawal from nicotine. 
reasonably, unreasonably Consent will not be unreasonably withheld. 
from He was accused of deliberately withholding information from the police. 
eye (also eyewitness) An eyewitness account described the plane as a ‘fireball’.
crucial, key, material, vital As the last person to see her alive, he was a material witness in the case.
appeal for The police are appealing for witnesses.
trace Police have so far failed to trace any witnesses to the attack. 
come forward Two witnesses came forward with evidence. 
call The defence called their first witness.
appear as She appeared as a character witness.
intimidate, threaten A judicial enquiry was ordered, but witnesses were threatened and none would testify.
suborn He was charged with conspiracy to suborn witnesses. 
take the stand The next witness took the stand.
identify sb She was the only witness to identify Peters as the attacker. 
to Would you be willing to act as a witness to my signature when I sign my will? 
lone A lone wolf howled under the full moon.
marauding, ravening, slavering (figurative) She called the media ‘ravening wolves’. 
emerge from The baby's head was starting to emerge from the womb. 
in the/your ~ A scan determines the position of the baby in the womb. 
hazily, idly, vaguely I wondered vaguely whether Robert could be the murderer.
apprehensively, uneasily I wondered uneasily if anything had happened to the children.
aloud ‘Where's Natasha?’ she wondered aloud.
just ‘Why do you ask?’ ‘I just wondered.’
often, sometimes I sometimes wonder who's crazier, him or me. 
begin to I was just beginning to wonder where you were.
cannot/could not help but, can only I couldn't help but wonder what he was thinking.
make sb His obvious hunger made her wonder how long he had been up and about. 
about We'd wondered about you as a possible team member. 
soft Pine is a soft wood.
dark The pub had dark wood panelling.
green The wood was too green to burn.
dead, rotten, rotting She pruned the dead wood from the tree.
kindling There were neat piles of kindling wood against the wall.
be made from/in/(out) of, carve/make sth from/in/out of The cabinet is made of cherry wood. We carve the moulds in wood.
paint, polish, stain, varnish She stained the wood green.
season Traditionally wood was seasoned in the open air.
gather We gathered wood for the fire. 
rot Over the years, much of the wood in the house had rotted.
burn Dry wood burns easily. 
in ~ The chapel has some interesting works in wood and marble. 
through the ~ He wandered through the beech wood. 
hit He hit the woodwork (= the wooden frame of the goal) twice before scoring. 
in the ~ There were cracks in the woodwork. 
carefully, cautiously We need to word our question quite carefully.
strongly He issued a very strongly worded statement denying any involvement in the plot. 
hard It's hard work trying to get him to do a few things for himself. It doesn't require skill?it's a matter of sheer hard work.
arduous, back-breaking, challenging, complicated, demanding, difficult, gruelling, intensive, labour-intensive, tiring, tough The show is the product of two years' intensive work.
heavy They employ a couple of young men to do the heavy work.
donkey I did the donkey work (= hard work requiring little skill) but I hired a professional builder for the tricky bits.
light She's only allowed to do a little light work because of her bad arm.
close I need to wear glasses for close work.
dirty Engine maintenance is dirty work. (figurative) The drugs gang used children to do their dirty work for them.
purposeful Many unemployed people welcome the chance to do purposeful work, even if unpaid.
valuable The research institute needs funds in order to carry on its valuable work.
men's, women's They think that looking after children is women's work.
undercover The scandal was revealed after months of undercover work by journalists.
leg (also legwork) Her job as a market researcher involves a lot of legwork (= walking around to collect information).
written His written work is the best in the class.
collaborative, joint classroom activities involving collaborative work between children The report is the joint work of an economist and a sociologist.
remedial The poorly designed bridge needs remedial work to make it safe.
honest He preferred to make his money from honest work rather than from gambling.
good, nice (informal), outstanding, sterling Nice work, James! I'm impressed. 
ground-breaking, innovative, pioneering He did pioneering work on microbes.
your own Is this all your own work (= did you do it without help from others)? 
bit, piece It was an interesting piece of work. 
carry out, do, put in All the construction work was carried out in 2001. I've got lots of work to do today. She's put in a lot of work on the design.
get done, have done I think I'd better try and get some work done. We're going to have some building work done on the house.
produce Work produced on a word processor tends to look more professional.
get, have We get far too much work at this time of year.
take on, undertake I've taken on more work than I've got time to do.
create, make Big football matches make a lot of work for the police.
begin, commence, get down to, set about/to, start They began work on the project towards the end of the year. Stop talking and get down to work. We set to work on the outside of the house (= for example, painting it).
go about She went cheerfully about her work.
halt, hold up, stop Work on the project was halted.
lose They lost the work to a competitor.
undo The new president spent the first year undoing the work of his predecessor.
oversee, supervise The assistant
set sb to She set them to work painting the fence.
require To carry out accurate market research requires a huge amount of work.
hand in We're supposed to hand in this work tomorrow. 
come The work comes in bursts according to the time of year.
wait That work can wait until tomorrow.
go How's the work going this morning?
involve sth What does the work involve?
come to a standstill Work came to a complete standstill when rumours of redundancies started to circulate.
cost How much will the work cost? 
rate Her boss told her she had to increase her work rate.
surface Work surfaces should be left clear and clean. 
at ~ He's been hard at work all morning.
~ on I have to do some work on the engine before it'll be ready to drive.
~ with She's done a lot of work with disadvantaged children. 
a backlog of work It will take a month to clear the backlog of work.
keep up the good work The hotel manager thanked the staff for their efforts so far and told them to keep up the good work.
your life's work The art collection was his life's work.
make light/short work of sth (= to do sth quickly and easily) Mike made short work of fixing the engine.
never/not a stroke of work She never does a stroke of work.
pressure of work Pressure of work forced him to cancel his holiday.
work in progress The showroom has been designed so that people can see work in progress. 
nice (humorous) A hundred grand for two days a week? Nice work if you can get it! 
have He's got a bit of freelance work at the moment.
look for He got made redundant, so now he's looking for work again.
find, get Full-time work is hard to find.
go to I go to work on the bus.
go out to Some mothers of young children choose not to go out to work.
finish, knock off What time do you finish work?
stop She stops work at the end of this month.
give up Just before he was sixty, he decided to give up work.
go back to, return to She has just returned to work after the birth of her child.
coordinate Sales reps meet up monthly to coordinate their work. 
go Work's going well at the moment.
start What time does work start in the morning?
hours Employees must not make personal calls in work hours.
experience He's doing a month's unpaid work experience with an engineering firm.
incentive High income tax can undermine work incentives.
practice An independent report has described some work practices in the industry as old-fashioned. 
at ~ ‘Where's Diane?’ ‘She's at work.’ We had a party at work.
in (your) ~ With so much unemployment, I'm lucky to be in work. It's important to be happy in your work.
off ~ She's been off work with a bad back since July.
out of ~ He's been out of work since the factory closed.
through ~ I met him through work. 
a line of work ‘What line of work are you in?’ ‘Computing.’
definitive, seminal Her book is still considered the definitive work on beetles.
late, mature Picasso's mature works 
compose, produce, write Beethoven composed his greatest works towards the end of his life.
hear, read, see Her work can be seen in most of the major European galleries.
conduct, direct, edit, produce, publish, put on Over the next two years, the theatre is putting on the complete works of Brecht.
display, exhibit, show The town hall is exhibiting works by local artists. 
be called sth, be entitled sth a work entitled ‘Forward Pass’ 
in a/the ~ She's studying the theme of death in the works of Beckett.
an exhibition of sb's work The gallery is staging a special exhibition of Monet's early works.
a work of art/fiction/literature The building is hated by some and considered a work of art by others. (humorous) They discovered that his CV was a complete work of fiction.
a work of genius Her latest novel is a work of genius. > Note at ART 
carry out We are planning to carry out major works on the site.
continue, go on The works will continue until the end of July. 
at the ~ A contraflow is in operation at the works near Junction 5. 
turn sth out The works at Bury turned out thousands of television sets 
casual Casual workers are usually paid by the hour.
average One night in these expensive hotels costs around the average worker's monthly wage.
exploit The union accused the firm of exploiting its workers. 
run sth, staff sth The shop is staffed by one paid worker and three volunteers.
demand sth Workers demanded fair wages and better working conditions.
vote The workers voted for industrial action.
(be on) strike, walk out The workers walked out last month after a failure to agree all the terms for the 110 lay-offs. 
the exploitation of workers, workers' demands, worker's rights > Note at JOB 
inner, internal the inner workings of a watch the internal workings of Parliament
lay bare, reveal, shed light on Their research aims to shed light on the workings of the human mind.
understand It is hard to understand the complex workings of the social security system.
gang A gang of council workmen has been digging a hole in the road. 
do, have When I do a good workout, I feel fine. The team had a hard workout this morning.
give sb/sth I went for a ride to give my new bike a workout. 
create, make They believe that God created the world.
destroy One of these days, humankind will destroy the world.
take over Fast food outlets seem to be taking over the world.
see As a young man, he wanted to see the world before he settled down.
lead Sweden leads the world in safety legislation. 
price World oil prices continue to rise.
domination A handful of Internet companies are battling for world domination.
attention, opinion The bombing alienated world opinion.
champion He was easily beaten by the reigning world champion.
class The team is world class.
beaters The Portuguese team looked like world beaters in last night's game.
record She shattered the world record for the 200 metres.
rankings He has never before featured in the top ten world rankings.
tour The band are about to embark on a six-month world tour. 
across the ~ Astronomers across the world will be watching the night sky.
all around/over/round the ~ The ceremony was watched live by millions around the world.
in the ~ He felt he was the luckiest man in the whole world.
throughout the ~ People throughout the world will be watching the big match on television. 
the end of the world (figurative) It won't be the end of the world if you don't get the job.
on a world scale Communist parties were formed on a world scale after the Russian Revolution.
on the world stage The country became an important player on the world stage.
a part of the world It's an interesting part of the world.
the world over Scientists the world over have been waiting for this breakthrough. 
rab, English-speaking, Western, etc. Heads of state from all over the Arab world gathered for the conference.
developed, First, industrialized, rich First World consumers will have to eat less meat.
developing, Third, 
ld World cultures. 
in the … ~ In the Western world, there is a different attitude to marriage. 
ancient, medieval, Roman, etc.
vanishing These tribesmen are proud survivors of a vanishing world.
outside, real Throughout his time in prison he had no contact with the outside world. In the real world things don't always happen like they do in books.
dream, fantasy, imaginary, inner, private She enjoys creating imaginary worlds for children. She lives in her own inner world.
spirit Mediums claim to receive messages from the spirit world.
animal, insect, natural, plant I like living in the country because I'm interested in the natural world.
different We come from different worlds.
sb's own (little) She lives in her own little world.
whole (wide), wider She told him he was her only friend in the whole wide world. The wider world learned of his illness months after he told his family.
small I'm sure we'll meet again. It's a very small world in this profession. 
change Young people always think they are going to change the world.
have, inhabit, live in Children often have their own private world.
come into, enter, escape into We come into the world with nothing. He entered the world of politics in 1997. Showbusiness gave him the chance to escape into another world.
bring sb into She had brought six children into the world.
escape from, shut yourself away from, shut out He closed his eyes and tried to shut out the world.
face For the first time since the death of her parents, she felt able to face the world.
take on He was so happy to leave school, he felt ready to take on the world.
tell He wanted to tell the world how happy he was.
prove to, show She was determined to show the world that she was no loser.
shake, shock, stun The news of the assassination shook the world. 
fall apart His world fell apart when his wife died.
revolve around sb/sth She thinks the world revolves around her and her schedule.
owe sb sth He seems to think that the world owes him a living. 
view Teachers influence the world view of their young 
in the … ~ He's well known in the fashion world.
~ about/around At this age, babies are starting to take an interest in the world around them.
~ of In the world of high finance, there is little room for sentiment. 
experience/knowledge/perception of the world, the eyes of the world The eyes of the world are on the president.
in an ideal/a perfect world In an ideal world, I'd like to work just three days a week.
in a world of your own I tapped on the window to get her attention but she was in a world of her own.
the rest of the world He just wanted to shut himself away from the rest of the world.
watch the world go by He likes to sit outside his front door and watch the world go by.
the ways of the world He's too young to understand the ways of the world.
worlds apart Although they are twins, they are worlds apart in their attitude to life. 
get I started to get worried when they didn't arrive home. 
rightly Citizens in inner-city areas are desperately worried and rightly so. 
about We were really worried about you! 
worried sick She was worried sick about her son. 
a lot, particularly, really, terribly She worries a lot about crime. What really worries me is what we do if there's nobody there.
needlessly, unduly, unnecessarily You do worry unnecessarily, you know.
not too much Don't worry too much about it.
not let sth, not need to Don't let it worry you unduly.
about Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.
with Don't worry the driver with unnecessary requests. 
enough/nothing to worry about Don't bother Harry?he has enough to worry about as it is.
stop worrying Stop worrying, Dad, we'll be fine.
be, feel, look, seem I feel even worse today!
become, get, grow The problem is getting worse all the time. The pain grew worse.
make sth Ignoring the problem will make it worse. 
considerably, dramatically, far, a good/great deal, infinitely, a lot, (very) much, a sight, significantly It's much worse for the parents than it is for the child. Things could be a sight worse than they are.
almost The area seemed almost worse than the city he had left.
progressively, steadily The problem became progressively worse.
even, still We've run out of petrol. Worse still, we can't get any more until tomorrow. 
Sunday
Christian, Hindu, etc.
conduct, lead Our worship today is led by the Reverend John Parker.
an act of worship, forms of worship, freedom of worship Under the new regime, all religions enjoy freedom of worship.
a place of worship Fifteen per cent of the population attend a place of worship. 
consider sth, think sth Most of the candidates were not considered worth interviewing. 
really, well This book is well worth reading.
barely, hardly, scarcely It's so unimportant it's hardly worth mentioning.
always It's always worth seeing if you can get a cheap, last-minute deal. 
to This order is potentially worth millions of pounds to the company. 
make sth These contradictions made his evidence worthless.
consider sth, discard sth as, dismiss sth as, regard sth as, reject sth as, see sth as The opinion polls were dismissed as worthless. 
to The diseased plants are quite worthless to the farmer. 
hardly, scarcely The matter is scarcely worthy of the managing director's time.
enough We thought it was a worthy enough objective. 
of It's a matter worthy of our attention. 
fatally, mortally She was fatally wounded in a car crash.
in One reporter was wounded in the leg. 
deeply She was deeply wounded by his remarks. 
continue, go on The legal wrangle continues. 
in a/the ~ The two countries fell out in a bitter wrangle over imports.
~ between The wrangle between the school and the local council has gone on for two years.
~ over, ~ with I don't want to get into a wrangle with the committee. 
Cellophane(R), foil, paper, plastic
drop, throw away, throw down He dropped a sweet wrapper. 
litter sth Sweet wrappers littered the floor. 
in a/the ~ The book arrived in a plain brown wrapper.
on a/the ~ There was a list of ingredients on the wrapper.
out of a/the She took the chocolate bar out of the foil wrapper. 
lay The Queen laid a poppy wreath at the war memorial.
send He didn't come to the funeral but he sent a wreath.
of She wore a wreath of roses round her head. 
completely, totally A bomb completely wrecked the building.
uncomfortably The children wriggled uncomfortably in their seats.
free The dog wriggled free of his grasp and ran off.
wriggle your way She wriggled her way under the heavy eiderdown. 
all, deeply, extremely, very His face was all wrinkled and old.
igh Court, Supreme Court, etc.
apply for, obtain Creditors could obtain a writ for the arrest of their debtors.
file, issue, serve A writ was filed in the High Court. The solicitor came to serve a writ on him.
be served with, receive He has been served with a High Court writ. 
~ against The businessmen have issued a writ against the authority for damages.
ancient, classical, Greek, Roman
Renaissance, Victorian, etc.
female, gay, male, woman She gives talks about being a black woman writer.
Christian, communist, feminist, political, socialist
the present (written) The present writer (= the person writing) has no experience in microbiology. 
argue sth, describe sth, point sth out, put it (written), say sth, suggest sth As one twelfth-century writer put it, English wine could be drunk only with closed eyes and through clenched teeth. Is political culture, as some writers have suggested, in a state of collapse?
for a freelance feature writer for the Guardian
~ on He is a prominent writer on civil liberties.
an association/a group/a guild of writers, a writer's association/group/guild/union, a writer in residence We have decided not to employ a writer in residence after June.
a writer of the day/period/time Unlike many writers of the period, she is not preoccupied with morality.
writer's block He's just released a new album after two years of writer's block. > Note at JOB 
go Things seemed to be going horribly wrong.
get sth He got all his sums wrong.
find sth The doctor could find nothing physically wrong with him.
get sb Don't get me wrong (= don't misunderstand me)?I'm not asking for any favours.
prove sb She was able to prove him wrong. 
all, badly, disastrously, drastically, grossly, hopelessly, horribly, seriously, terribly, tragically You've got it all wrong. I never meant to imply that you were responsible.
just, simply She's simply wrong for this job.
not far They weren't far wrong with their estimate of 100,000.
about You were completely wrong about Maurice. He's not leaving.
with She was worried that there was something seriously wrong with her. 
routine VERB + X-RAY have
examine X-RAY + VERB reveal sth, show sth The X-ray showed a crack in one rib. X-RAY + NOUN equipment, machine, plate
of The dentist took an X-ray of my jaw.
~ on I had to have an X-ray on my knee. 
the result/results of the X-ray The result of the X-ray gave no cause for concern. 
cruise on, sail They are cruising on a large motor yacht.
have We don't have a common yardstick by which to compare the two cases.
against a ~ The new test provides a yardstick against which to measure children's learning.
by a ~ By any yardstick, that's a large amount of money. 
stifle, suppress He struggled to stifle a yawn.
give The little boy gave a huge yawn.
conceal He tried to conceal his yawn behind his hand. 
last, past The chart shows our performance over the past year.
past, preceding, previous, recent The event has not proved popular in past years. They had met once the previous year.
coming, following, future, next We have high hopes for the coming year. She died the following year. We aim to do even better in future years.
consecutive, successive She won the race for the third successive year.
intervening He soon realized that a lot had changed in the intervening years.
early, later the early years of the twenty-first century In his later years, he drifted away from politics.
new We're going skiing early in the new year.
light (often figurative) The new range puts us light years ahead of the competition.
sabbatical He spent his sabbatical year doing research in Moscow.
inter-war, post-war, pre-war, war ~s The children spent the war years abroad.
formative, tender ~s She was born in Spain but spent her formative years in Italy. children of tender years 
spend He spent last year trying to get a new job.
take It took him ten years to qualify as a vet.
celebrate Next year they celebrate fifty years of marriage.
put on His wife's death has put years on him (= made him look/feel much older).
take off Careful make-up and styling can take years off you (= make you look much younger). 
elapse, go by, pass A year elapsed before I heard from him again. The last year went by in flash.
run from/to sth The academic year runs from October to June.
see sth That year saw the explosion of the Internet. 
by the ~ … The reforms will be fully implemented by the year 2007.
for a/the ~ profit for the current year to 31 December We lived there for ten years.
in a ~ I hope to retire in a year/in a year's time.
in a/the ~ in the next tax year Britain was invaded in the year 1066.
in ~s It's the first time we've met in years (= for many years).
over/under a ~ We've been friends for over twenty years.
per ~ Over 10,000 people per year are injured in this type of accident.
throughout the ~ The global economy means that all types of fruit and vegetables are available throughout the year.
~ of The book represents three years of hard work. That was in the year of the great flood. 
all year long I've been waiting for this moment all year long.
all (the) year round The city tour runs all the year round.
the beginning/end/middle/start of the year, be six, etc. years old She's only ten years old.
early/late in the year, a time of year It's usually much colder at this time of year.
the turn of the year The team has suffered a loss of form since the turn of the year. 
with (a) ~ He looked at her with yearning.
~ after He felt a great yearning after his old job.
~ for They had a deep yearning for their homeland. 
rather, slightly Her teeth were rather yellow. 
creamy, light, pale, soft She wore a pale yellow dress.
canary, chrome, golden, lemon, primrose, saffron, sunshine > Special page at COLOUR 
good, high This method of cultivation produces higher yield.
low, poor Yields are quite poor this year. 
carton, pot > Special page at FOOD 
be, feel, look, seem I felt young again. 
extremely, very She still looks very young.
comparatively, fairly, quite, relatively He seemed quite young to have so much responsibility.
enough She looked young enough to be his daughter. 
burn with, have He burned with a reforming zeal.
with ~ She went about the task with the zeal of an enthusiast.
~ for She had a true zeal for journalism.
get caught in The fabric got caught in the zip and tore. 
be/get stuck, stick The zip on my bag has stuck.
by a ~ The jacket was fastened by a zip at the front.
~ on > Special page at CLOTHES 
at a/the ~ We saw a baby polar bear at the zoo.
in a/the ~ These lions were born in the zoo. 
NOTE: SUBJECTS
ther verbs used with subject can also be used with particular subjects of study: Half the students take geography at A level. We offer accounting as a subsidiary course. 
epartment of Architecture. 
NOTE: PLAYING
NOTE: WEIGHTS
NOTE: RANKS
NOTE: MONTHS 
NOTE: CRIMES
NOTE: SEASONS
NOTE: PERFORMING
NOTE: SOUNDS
NOTE: RELIGIONS 
NOTE: CURRENCIES
any of the collocates of MONEY (for example make, spend) can also be used with currencies: The country spends millions of dollars on overseas aid every year. 
NOTE: POINTS
enice, looking north from the Rialto Bridge. 
hich way is ~? Which way is west? 
